              USER MANUAL




SM-S911B
SM-S911B/DS
SM-S916B
SM-S916B/DS
SM-S918B
SM-S918B/DS


English. 06/2023. Rev.1.2   www.samsung.com
Table of Contents

Getting started                               94    Samsung Wallet
                                              96    Samsung Pay
5  Device layout and functions
                                              98    Samsung Health
11 Charging the battery
                                              99    Samsung Notes
16 Nano-SIM card and eSIM
                                              104   Samsung Members
18 Turning the device on and off
                                              104   Samsung Kids
19 Initial setup
                                              105   Samsung Global Goals
20 Samsung account
                                              105   Samsung TV Plus
21 Transferring data from your previous
   device (Smart Switch)                      105   Galaxy Shop
23 Understanding the screen                   105   Galaxy Wearable
31 Notification panel                         106   PENUP (Galaxy S23 Ultra)
33 Screen capture and screen record           106   Calendar
34 Entering text                              107   Reminder (Receiving notifications
                                                    for to-do items)
                                              108   Voice Recorder
                                              110   My Files (Checking and managing
Apps and features                                   the files)
37 Installing or uninstalling apps            110   Clock
38 S Pen (Galaxy S23 Ultra)                   110   Calculator
54 Phone                                      111   Game Launcher
57 Contacts                                   112   Game Booster (Configuring your
59 Messages                                         gaming environment)
60 Camera                                     113   SmartThings
78 Gallery                                    113   Sharing content
82 AR Zone                                    115   Music Share
88 Bixby                                      116   Smart View (Mirroring on a TV
89 Bixby Vision                                     screen)
90 Multi window (Using multiple apps          117   Link to Windows (Using the device
   at once)                                         through a computer connection)
93 Samsung Internet


                                          2
Table of Contents


118 Samsung DeX                               142 Security and privacy
122 Google apps                                   143 Face recognition
                                                  145 Fingerprint recognition
                                                  148 Samsung Pass
Settings                                          150 Secure Folder
123 Introduction                                  153 Secure Wi-Fi
123 Samsung account                           154 Location
123 Connections                               155 Safety and emergency
    125 Wi-Fi                                 155 Accounts and backup
    126 Bluetooth                                 156 Samsung Cloud
    127 NFC and contactless payments          157 Google
    129 Data saver                            157 Advanced features
    129 Mobile data only apps                     158 Motions and gestures
    130 Mobile Hotspot                            159 Video call effects
    130 More connection settings                  160 Dual Messenger
132 Connected devices                         161 Digital Wellbeing and parental
                                                  controls
133 Modes and Routines
                                              161 Battery and device care
    133 Using modes
                                                  161 Optimising your device
    133 Using routines
                                                  162 Battery
134 Sounds and vibration
                                                  162 Storage
    135 Sound quality and effects
                                                  162 Memory
    135 Separate app sound
                                                  163 Device protection
136 Notifications
                                                  163 Auto optimisation
136 Display
                                                  163 Software update
    138 Motion smoothness
                                                  163 Diagnostics
    138 Changing the screen mode or
         adjusting the display colour             163 Maintenance mode
139 Wallpaper and style                       163 Apps
139 Themes                                    164 General management
139 Home screen                               165 Accessibility
140 Lock screen                               165 Software update
    140 Smart Lock                            166 About phone
    141 Always On Display (Displaying
         information when the screen is
         turned off)



                                          3
Table of Contents


Usage notices
167 Precautions for using the device
170 Notes on package contents and
    accessories
171 Maintaining water and dust
    resistance
172 Device overheating situations and
    solutions



Appendix
175 Accessibility
190 Troubleshooting
195 Removing the battery




                                        4
Getting started
Device layout and functions
▶ Galaxy S23 Ultra:


                  Front camera

                                      Volume key


                                      Side key




                                      SIM card tray

                       Speaker        Microphone

                  Front camera


         Proximity/Light sensor
                                      Volume key

                  Touch screen        Side key


                   Edge screen        Edge screen


                                      Fingerprint
                                      recognition sensor
                         S Pen

             Headphone jack /
             Multipurpose jack
                 (USB Type-C)         SIM card tray

                                  5
Getting started




                   Rear camera




                   Rear camera         Laser AF sensor
                                       GPS antenna

                   Microphone          Flash




                 NFC antenna /
          Wireless charging coil




                  Main antenna
                                       Speaker

                   Microphone          Air vent hole




                                   6
Getting started


▶ Galaxy S23+, Galaxy S23:

                  Front camera




                                      Volume key


                                      Side key




                  SIM card tray




                      Speaker         Microphone

                                      Proximity/Light sensor
                  Front camera

                                      Volume key

                  Touch screen
                                      Side key




                                      Fingerprint
                                      recognition sensor




                  SIM card tray       Headphone jack /
                                      Multipurpose jack
                                      (USB Type-C)




                                  7
Getting started




                   Rear camera




                   Rear camera
                                       GPS antenna
                   Microphone

                                       Flash




                 NFC antenna /
          Wireless charging coil




                                       Main antenna

                       Speaker
                                       Microphone
                   Air vent hole




                                   8
Getting started


     •   When using the speakers, such as when playing media files or using
         speakerphone, do not place the device close to your ears.
     •   Be careful not to expose the camera lens to a strong light source, such as direct
         sunlight. If the camera lens is exposed to a strong light source, such as direct
         sunlight, the camera image sensor may be damaged. A damaged image sensor is
         irreparable and will cause dots or spots in pictures.
     •   If you use the device with its glass or acrylic body broken, there may be a risk
         of injury. Use the device only after it has been repaired at a Samsung Service
         Centre or an authorised service centre.
     •   If dust or foreign materials enter the microphone, speaker, or receiver, or if these
         parts are covered, the device’s sound may become quiet or certain features may
         not work. If you attempt to remove the dust or foreign materials with a sharp
         object, the device may be damaged and its appearance may be affected.
     •   Connectivity problems and battery drain may occur in the following situations:
          ‒ If you attach metallic stickers on the antenna area of the device
          ‒ If you attach a device cover made with metallic material to the device
          ‒ If you cover the device’s antenna area with your hands or other objects while
            using certain features, such as calls or the mobile data connection
     •   If the air vent hole is covered by an accessory, such as a protective film or sticker,
         unwanted noises may occur during calls or media playback.
     •   Do not cover the proximity/light sensor area with accessories, such as stickers or
         a cover. Doing so may cause the sensor to malfunction.
     •   The light may flicker at the top of the device during calls because of proximity
         sensor operation.
     •   The colours on the Edge screen may look different depending on your viewing
         position. (Galaxy S23 Ultra)




                                               9
Getting started


Hard keys
 Key                  Function
                      •   When the device is off, press and hold to turn it on.
                      •   Press to turn on or lock the screen.

 Side key
                      •   Press and hold to start a conversation with Bixby. Refer to
                          Using Bixby for more information.
                      •   Press twice or press and hold to open the app or feature you
                          set.
 Side key +           •   Press simultaneously to capture a screenshot.
 Volume Down
 key
                      •   Press and hold simultaneously to turn off the device.


Setting the Side key
Select an app or feature to launch by pressing the Side key twice or pressing and holding
the Side key.
Open Settings, tap Advanced features → Side key, and then select an option you want.

Soft buttons



                  Recents button                            Back button


                                                            Home button

When you turn on the screen, the soft buttons will appear at the bottom of the screen.
Refer to Navigation bar (soft buttons) for more information.




                                             10
Getting started



Charging the battery
Charge the battery before using it for the first time or when it has been unused for
extended periods.


Wired charging
Connect the USB cable to the USB power adapter and plug the cable into the device’s
multipurpose jack to charge the battery. After fully charging, disconnect the charger
from the device.




Wireless charging
The device has a built-in wireless charging coil. You can charge the battery using a
wireless charger (sold separately).
Place the centre of the device’s back on the centre of the wireless charger to charge the
battery. After fully charging, disconnect the device from the wireless charger.
The estimated charging time will appear on the notification panel. The actual charging
time assumes that the device is not in use, and it may vary depending on the charging
conditions. Wireless charging may not work smoothly depending on the type of
accessory or cover. For stable wireless charging, it is recommended to separate the cover
or accessory from the device.




                                            11
Getting started


     Precautions for wireless charging
     If you do not follow the precautions, the device may not charge properly or may
     overheat, or the device and any cards may be damaged.
     •   Do not place the device on the wireless charger with a credit card or
         radio-frequency identification (RFID) card (such as a transportation card or a key
         card) placed between the back of the device and the device cover.
     •   Do not place the device on the wireless charger when conductive materials, such
         as metal objects and magnets, are placed between the device and the wireless
         charger.
     •   If you use the wireless charger in areas with weak network signals, you may lose
         network reception.
     •   Use Samsung-approved wireless chargers. If you use other wireless chargers,
         the battery may not charge properly.


Quick charging
Use a super fast charger or fast charger. To use the fast wireless charging feature, use a
charger and components that support the feature.
You can check the connection status of the charger by opening Settings and tapping
Battery and device care → Battery.
     •   If fast charging does not work, open Settings, tap Battery and device care
         → Battery → More battery settings, and then check if the feature you want
         is turned on. Also, check if the USB cable and the USB power adapter are
         connected properly.
     •   You can charge the battery more quickly while the device or its screen is turned
         off.
     •   If the wireless charger has an internal fan, the fan may produce noise during
         fast wireless charging. Add a routine to set the fast wireless charging feature to
         turn off automatically at the preset time using Routines. When the fast wireless
         charging feature turns off, the charger’s fan noise and the indicator light will be
         reduced.




                                             12
Getting started


Wireless power sharing
You can charge another device with your phone’s battery. You can still charge another
device even while charging your phone. Depending on the type of accessories or
cover being used, the Wireless power sharing feature may not work properly. It is
recommended to remove any accessories and cover being used before using this feature.
1 Open the notification panel, swipe downwards, and then tap      (Wireless power
   sharing) to turn it on. If you cannot find (Wireless power sharing) on the quick
   panel, tap    and drag the button over to add it.
2 Place the other device on the centre of your phone, with their backs facing.




            Phone                      Galaxy Watch                   Galaxy Buds

3 When you are finished charging, disconnect the other device from your phone.
     Do not use headphones while sharing power. Doing so may affect nearby devices.
     •   The location of the wireless charging coil may vary by device model. Adjust the
         devices to connect with each other properly.
     •   Some features are not available while sharing power.
     •   Only devices that support the wireless charging feature can be charged using
         this feature. Some devices may not be charged. To check out devices that
         support the Wireless power sharing feature, visit the Samsung website.
     •   To charge properly, do not move or use either device while charging.
     •   The power charged to the other device may be less than the amount shared to it
         by your phone.
     •   If you charge the other device while charging your phone, the charging speed
         may decrease or the device may not charge properly depending on the charger
         type.
     •   The charging speed or efficiency may vary depending on the phone’s condition or
         the surrounding environment.




                                            13
Getting started


Setting the limit for power sharing
You can set the device to stop power sharing when the remaining battery power drops
below a certain level.
Open Settings, tap Battery and device care → Battery → Wireless power sharing →
Battery limit, and then set the limit.


Reducing the battery consumption
Your device provides various options that help you conserve battery power.
 •   Optimise the device using the device care feature.
 •   When you are not using the device, turn off the screen by pressing the Side key.
 •   Turn on power saving mode.
 •   Close unnecessary apps.
 •   Turn off the Bluetooth feature when not in use.
 •   Turn off auto-syncing of apps that need to be synced.
 •   Decrease the backlight time.
 •   Decrease the screen brightness.




                                            14
Getting started


Battery charging tips and precautions
     Use only Samsung-approved battery, charger, and cable specifically designed for
     your device. Incompatible battery, charger, and cable can cause serious injuries or
     damage to your device.
     •   Connecting the charger improperly may cause serious damage to the device. Any
         damage caused by misuse is not covered by the warranty.
     •   Use only USB Type-C cable supplied with the device. The device may be
         damaged if you use Micro USB cable.
     •   If you charge the device while the multipurpose jack is wet, the device may be
         damaged. Thoroughly dry the multipurpose jack before charging the device.
     •   To save energy, unplug the charger when not in use. The charger does not have a
         power switch, so you must unplug the charger from the electric socket when not
         in use to avoid wasting power. The charger should remain close to the electric
         socket and easily accessible while charging.
     •   When using a charger, it is recommended to use an approved charger that
         guarantees the charging performance.
     •   If the battery is completely discharged, the device cannot be turned on
         immediately when the charger is connected. Allow a depleted battery to charge
         for a few minutes before turning on the device.
     •   If you use multiple apps at once, network apps, or apps that need a connection
         to another device, the battery will drain quickly. To avoid losing power during a
         data transfer, always use these apps after fully charging the battery.
     •   Using a power source other than the charger, such as a computer, may result in a
         slower charging speed because of a lower electric current.
     •   The device can be used while it is charging, but it may take longer to fully charge
         the battery.
     •   If the device receives an unstable power supply while charging, the touch screen
         may not function. If this happens, unplug the charger from the device.
     •   While charging, the device and the charger may heat up. This is normal and
         should not affect the device’s lifespan or performance. If the battery gets hotter
         than usual, the charger may stop charging.
     •   If the device is not charging properly, take the device and the charger to a
         Samsung Service Centre or an authorised service centre.




                                             15
Getting started



Nano-SIM card and eSIM
Insert the SIM or USIM card provided by your carrier.
To have two phone numbers or carriers for a single device, activate the eSIM or insert
two SIM cards. Differing from a physical nano-SIM card, an eSIM is an embedded digital
SIM. Using both the nano-SIM card and the eSIM may result in slower data transfer
speeds in some areas.
       •   eSIM may not be available depending on the region, carrier, or model.
       •   Some services that require a network connection may not be available
           depending on the carrier.


Inserting the SIM or USIM card
▶ Galaxy S23 Ultra:

   1                     2                          3                    4




                             Single SIM card tray        <Underside>


                              Dual SIM card tray




                                                    16
Getting started


▶ Galaxy S23+, Galaxy S23:

    1                      2                          3                         4




                               Single SIM card tray          <Underside>


                                Dual SIM card tray




1 Insert the ejection pin into the hole on the tray to loosen the tray.
2 Pull out the tray gently from the tray slot.
3 Place the SIM or USIM card on the tray with the gold-coloured contacts facing
   upwards and gently press the SIM or USIM card into the tray to secure it.
4 Insert the tray back into the tray slot.
        •   Insert the ejection pin into the tray’s hole to remove the tray.
        •   Use only a nano-SIM card.
        •   Use caution not to lose or let others use the SIM or USIM card. Samsung is not
            responsible for any damages or inconveniences caused by lost or stolen cards.
        •   Ensure that the ejection pin is perpendicular to the hole. Otherwise, the device
            may be damaged.
        •   If the card is not fixed firmly into the tray, the SIM card may leave or fall out of
            the tray.
        •   If you insert the tray into your device while the tray is wet, your device may be
            damaged. Always make sure the tray is dry.
        •   Fully insert the tray into the tray slot to prevent liquid from entering your device.




                                                      17
Getting started


Activating an eSIM
Open Settings and tap Connections → SIM manager → Add eSIM. When a mobile plan is
found, follow the on-screen instructions to activate the eSIM.
If you have a QR code provided by your carrier, open Settings, tap Connections → SIM
manager → Add eSIM → Scan QR code from service provider, and then scan the QR
code.


SIM manager (dual SIM models)
Open Settings and tap Connections → SIM manager.
 •   SIM cards: Activate the SIM card to use and customise the SIM card settings.
 •   eSIMs: Activate the eSIM.
 •   Preferred SIMs: Select to use specific SIM cards for some features, such as voice
     calls, when two cards are activated.
 •   Data switching: Set the device to use another SIM card for data services if the
     preferred SIM card cannot connect to the network.
          You may incur additional charges when using this feature.
 •   More SIM settings: Customise the call or eSIM settings.



Turning the device on and off
      Follow all posted warnings and directions from authorised personnel in areas
      where the use of wireless devices is restricted, such as aeroplanes and hospitals.




                                  Volume Down key

                                  Side key




Turning the device on
Press and hold the Side key for a few seconds to turn on the device.




                                             18
Getting started


Turning the device off
1 To turn off the device, press and hold the Side key and the Volume Down key
   simultaneously. Alternatively, open the notification panel, swipe downwards, and
   then tap .
2 Tap Power off.
   To restart the device, tap Restart.
     You can set the device to turn off when you press and hold the Side key. Open
     Settings, tap Advanced features → Side key, and then tap Power off menu under
     Press and hold.

Forcing restart
If your device is frozen and unresponsive, press and hold the Side key and the Volume
Down key simultaneously for more than 7 seconds to restart it.

Emergency call
You can make an emergency call or check the medical information you saved.
Press and hold the Side key and the Volume Down key simultaneously, and then tap
Emergency call. Alternatively, open the notification panel, swipe downwards, and then
tap → Emergency call.
     To manage your medical information and emergency contacts, open Settings and
     tap Safety and emergency.



Initial setup
When you turn on your device for the first time or after performing a data reset, follow
the on-screen instructions to set up your device.
     If you do not connect to a Wi-Fi network, you might not be able to set up some
     device features during the initial setup.




                                            19
Getting started



Samsung account
Using the Samsung account, you can use a variety of Samsung services that are provided
through mobile devices, TVs, and the Samsung website.
To check the list of services that can be used with your Samsung account, visit
account.samsung.com.
1 Open Settings and tap Samsung account.
   Alternatively, open Settings and tap Accounts and backup → Manage accounts →
   Add account → Samsung account.
2 Sign in to your Samsung account. If you do not have a Samsung account, tap Create
   account.

Finding your ID and resetting your password
If you forget your Samsung account ID or password, tap Find ID or Forgot password? on
the Samsung account sign-in screen. You can find your ID or reset your password after
you enter the required information.

Signing out of your Samsung account
When you sign out of your Samsung account, your data, such as contacts or events, will
also be removed from your device.
1 Open Settings and tap Accounts and backup → Manage accounts.
2 Tap Samsung account → My profile and tap Sign out at the bottom of the screen.
3 Tap Sign out, enter your Samsung account password, and then tap OK.




                                           20
Getting started



Transferring data from your previous device
(Smart Switch)
You can use Smart Switch to transfer data from your previous device to your new phone.
Open Settings and tap Accounts and backup → Bring data from old device.
     •   This feature may not be supported on some devices or computers.
     •   Limitations apply. Visit www.samsung.com/smartswitch for details. Samsung
         takes copyright seriously. Only transfer content that you own or have the right to
         transfer.

Transferring data using a USB cable
You can connect your previous device to your new phone with the USB cable to transfer
data.
1 Connect your new phone and the previous device using your new phone’s USB cable.
  A USB connector may be needed depending on the previous device.
2 When the app selection pop-up window appears, tap Smart Switch → Receive data.
3 In the previous device, tap OK.
  If you do not have the app, download it from Galaxy Store or Play Store.
  Your new phone will recognise the previous device and a list of data you can transfer
  will appear.
4 On your new phone, select an option you want, tap Next, and then follow the
  on-screen instructions to transfer data.
    Do not disconnect the USB cable from the device when you are transferring files.
    Doing so may cause data loss or device damage.
     Transferring data increases the battery power consumption of your device. Ensure
     that your device is sufficiently charged before transferring data. If the battery
     power is low, data transfer may be interrupted.




                                            21
Getting started


Transferring data wirelessly
Transfer data from your previous device to your new phone wirelessly through Wi-Fi
Direct.
1 On the previous device, open Smart Switch.
  If you do not have the app, download it from Galaxy Store or Play Store.
2 On your new phone, open Settings and tap Accounts and backup → Bring data from
  old device.
3 Place the devices near each other.
4 On the previous device, tap Send data → Wireless.
5 On your new phone, tap Receive data, select your previous device’s operating system,
  and then tap Wireless.
6 On the previous device, tap Allow.
7 On your new phone, select an option you want, tap Next, and then follow the
  on-screen instructions to transfer data.

Transferring backup data from a computer
Back up data from your previous device to a computer and import the data to your new
phone.
1 On the computer, visit www.samsung.com/smartswitch to download Smart Switch.
2 On the computer, open Smart Switch.
     If your previous device is not a Samsung device, back up data to a computer using
     an app provided by the device’s manufacturer. Then, skip to the fifth step.
3 Connect your previous device to the computer using the device’s USB cable.
4 On the computer, follow the on-screen instructions to back up data from the device.
  Then, disconnect your previous device from the computer.
5 Connect your new phone to the computer using the USB cable.
6 On the computer, follow the on-screen instructions to transfer data to your new
  phone.




                                             22
Getting started



Understanding the screen
Controlling the touch screen
 Tapping                                         Touching and
 Tap the screen.                                 holding
                                                 Touch and hold
                                                 the screen for
                                                 approximately
                                                 2 seconds.
 Dragging                                        Double tapping
 Touch and hold                                  Double tap the
 an item and                                     screen.
 drag it to the
 target position.

 Swiping                                         Spreading and
 Swipe upwards,                                  pinching
 downwards, to                                   Spread two
 the left, or to the                             fingers apart
 right.                                          or pinch on the
                                                 screen.




     •   Do not allow the touch screen to come into contact with other electrical devices.
         Electrostatic discharges can cause the touch screen to malfunction.
     •   To avoid damaging the touch screen, do not tap it with anything sharp or apply
         excessive pressure to it with your fingertips or other object.
     •   It is recommended not to use fixed graphics on part or all of the touch screen
         for extended periods. Doing so may result in afterimages (screen burn-in) or
         ghosting.
     The device may not recognise touch inputs close to the edges of the screen, which
     are outside of the touch input area.


                                            23
Getting started


Navigation bar (soft buttons)
When you turn on the screen, the soft buttons will appear on the navigation bar at the
bottom of the screen. The soft buttons are set to the Recents button, Home button, and
Back button by default. The functions of the buttons can change according to the app
currently being used or usage environment.




 Button                         Function
            Recents             •   Tap to open the list of recent apps.
                                •   Tap to return to the Home screen.
            Home
                                •   Touch and hold to open the Google Assistant app.
            Back                •   Tap to return to the previous screen.


Hiding the navigation bar
Check files or use apps on a wider screen by hiding the navigation bar.
Open Settings, tap Display → Navigation bar, and then tap Swipe gestures under
Navigation type. The navigation bar will be hidden and the gesture hints will appear. Tap
More options and select an option you want.




                  Swipe from bottom                  Swipe from sides and bottom


If you want to hide the gesture hints at the bottom of the screen, tap the Gesture hint
switch to turn it off.




                                             24
Getting started


Home screen and Apps screen
The Home screen is the starting point for accessing all of the device’s features. It
displays widgets, shortcuts to apps, and more.
The Apps screen displays icons for all apps, including newly installed apps.

Switching between Home and Apps screens
On the Home screen, swipe upwards to open the Apps screen.
To return to the Home screen, swipe upwards or downwards on the Apps screen.
Alternatively, tap the Home button or the Back button.

                                                                              Finder




  Favourite apps

                       Home screen                       Apps screen


If you add the Apps button on the Home screen, you can open the Apps screen by
tapping the button. On the Home screen, touch and hold an empty area, tap Settings,
and then tap the Show Apps screen button on Home screen switch to turn it on. The
Apps button will be added at the bottom of the Home screen.

                                                                Apps button




                                             25
Getting started


Editing the Home screen
On the Home screen, touch and hold an empty area, or pinch your fingers together to
access the editing options. You can set the wallpaper, add widgets, and more. You can
also add, delete, or rearrange Home screen panels.
 •   Adding panels: Swipe to the left, and then tap   .
 •   Moving panels: Drag a panel preview to a new location.
 •   Deleting panels: Tap   on the panel.




 •   Wallpaper and style: Change the wallpaper settings for the Home screen and the
     locked screen.
 •   Themes: Change the device’s theme. Visual elements of interface, such as colours,
     icons, and wallpapers, will change depending on the selected theme.
 •   Widgets: Widgets are small apps that launch specific app features to provide
     information and convenient access on your Home screen. Select a widget and tap
     Add. The widget will be added on the Home screen.
 •   Settings: Configure settings for the Home screen, such as the screen layout.

Displaying all apps on the Home screen
Without using a separate Apps screen, you can set the device to display all apps on the
Home screen. On the Home screen, touch and hold an empty area, and then tap Settings
→ Home screen layout → Home screen only → Apply.




                                            26
Getting started


Launching Finder
Search for content on the device.
1 On the Apps screen, tap Search. Alternatively, open the notification panel, swipe
     downwards, and then tap    .
2 Enter a keyword.
     Apps and content on your device will be searched.
     If you tap on the keyboard, you can search for more content.

Moving items
Drag an item to a new location. To move the item to another panel, drag it to the side of
the screen.
To add a shortcut to an app on the Home screen, touch and hold an item on the Apps
screen, and then tap Add to Home. A shortcut to the app will be added on the Home
screen.
You can also move frequently used apps to the shortcuts area at the bottom of the Home
screen.

Creating folders
On the Home screen or the Apps screen, drag an app over another app.
A new folder containing the selected apps will be created. Tap Folder name and enter a
folder name.




 •   Adding more apps
     Tap on the folder. Tick the apps to add and tap Done. You can also add an app by
     dragging it to the folder.




                                            27
Getting started


 •   Moving apps from a folder
     Drag an app to a new location.
 •   Deleting a folder
     Touch and hold a folder, and then tap Delete folder. Only the folder will be deleted.
     The folder’s apps will be relocated to the Apps screen.


Edge panel
You can access your favourite apps and features from the Edge panels.
Drag the Edge panel handle towards the centre of the screen.
If the Edge panel handle is not visible, open Settings, tap Display, and then tap the Edge
panels switch to turn it on.

              Edge panel handle                                      Edge panel




                                                                     Edge panel settings




                                             28
Getting started


Lock screen
Pressing the Side key turns off the screen and locks it. Also, the screen turns off and
automatically locks if the device is not used for a specified period.
To unlock the screen, swipe in any direction when the screen turns on.
If the screen is off, press the Side key to turn on the screen. Alternatively, double tap the
screen.

Changing the screen lock method
To change the screen lock method, open Settings, tap Lock screen → Screen lock type,
and then select a method.
When you set a pattern, PIN, password, or your biometric data for the screen lock
method, you can protect your personal information by preventing others from accessing
your device. After setting the screen lock method, the device will require an unlock code
whenever unlocking it.
     You can set your device to perform a factory data reset if you enter the unlock code
     incorrectly several times in a row and reach the attempt limit. Open Settings, tap
     Lock screen → Secure lock settings, unlock the screen using the preset screen lock
     method, and then tap the Auto factory reset switch to turn it on.


Indicator icons
Indicator icons appear on the status bar at the top of the screen. The icons listed in the
table are most common.

     Icon         Meaning
                  No signal
                  Signal strength
                  Roaming (outside of normal service area)
                  GPRS network connected
                  EDGE network connected
                  UMTS network connected
                  HSDPA network connected
                  HSPA+ network connected




                                             29
Getting started


     Icon             Meaning
         /            LTE network connected
                      5G network connected
                      LTE network connected in LTE network that includes the 5G network
                      Wi-Fi connected
                      Bluetooth feature turned on
         /            S Pen connected/disconnected
                      S Pen battery power level
                      Location services being used
                      Call in progress
                      Missed call
                      New text or multimedia message
                      Alarm turned on
         /            Mute mode / Vibration mode
                      Flight mode turned on
                      Error occurred or caution required
         /            Battery charging / Battery power level

     •       The status bar may not appear at the top of the screen in some apps. To display
             the status bar, drag down from the top of the screen.
     •       Some indicator icons appear only when you open the notification panel.
     •       The indicator icons may appear differently depending on the carrier or model.




                                                  30
Getting started



Notification panel
When you receive new notifications, indicator icons appear on the status bar. To check
out more information about the icons, open the notification panel and check the details.
To open the notification panel, drag the status bar downwards. To close the notification
panel, swipe upwards on the screen.
You can use the following functions on the notification panel.

              Quick setting buttons
                                                         Open Settings.

  Control connected nearby devices                       Control media on your phone and
      and SmartThings devices and                        connected nearby devices.
                           scenes.

                                                         Clear all notifications.
  Check the notification details and
          perform various actions.
                                                         Access the notification settings.


Using quick setting buttons
Tap quick setting buttons to turn on certain features. Swipe downwards on the
notification panel to access more buttons. To add more buttons, tap .




                                                         Quick setting buttons




                                                         Adjust the brightness of the
                                                         display.




                                           31
Getting started


To change feature settings, tap the text under each button. To access more detailed
settings, touch and hold a button.
To rearrange buttons, tap → Edit buttons, drag a button to another location.

Controlling media playback
Control media on your phone and connected nearby devices on the notification panel.
1 Open the notification panel and tap Media output.
2 Tap the icons on the controller to control the playback.

Controlling nearby devices
Launch and take control of nearby connected devices and frequently used SmartThings
devices and scenes on the notification panel.
1 Open the notification panel and tap Device control.
   Nearby connected devices and SmartThings devices and scenes will appear.
2 Select a nearby device or a SmartThings device to control it, or select a scene to
   launch it.




                                            32
Getting started



Screen capture and screen record
Screen capture
Capture a screenshot while using the device and write on, draw on, crop, or share the
captured screen. You can capture the current screen and scrollable area.

How to capture a screenshot
Use the following methods to capture a screenshot. You can check the captured
screenshots in Gallery.
Method 1) Key capture: Press the Side key and the Volume Down key simultaneously.
Method 2) Swipe capture: With the edge of your hand, swipe your hand to the left or
right across the screen.
      •   It is not possible to capture a screenshot while using some apps and features.
      •   If capturing a screenshot by swiping is not turned on, open Settings, tap
          Advanced features → Motions and gestures, and then tap the Palm swipe to
          capture switch to turn it on.

After capturing a screenshot, use the following options on the toolbar at the bottom of
the screen:




 •      : Capture the current content and the hidden content on an elongated page, such
     as a webpage. When you tap , the screen will automatically scroll down and more
     content will be captured.
 •      : Write or draw on the screenshot or crop a portion from the screenshot. You can
     check the cropped area in Gallery.
 •     : Add tags to the screenshot. To search for screenshots by tag, tap    in Gallery.
     You can access the tags list and search for the screenshot you want.
 •      : Share the screenshot with others.
      If the options are not visible on the captured screen, open Settings, tap Advanced
      features → Screenshots and screen recorder, and then tap the Show toolbar after
      capturing switch to turn it on.




                                             33
Getting started


Screen record
Record the screen while using your device.
1 Open the notification panel, swipe downwards, and then tap          (Screen recorder).
2 Select a sound setting and tap Start recording.
  After a countdown, recording will start.
   •   To write or draw on the screen, tap .
   •   To show the S Pen pointer on the screen, tap . You can use this feature only when
       the S Pen is detached from the device. (Galaxy S23 Ultra)
   •   To record the screen with a video overlay of yourself, tap .
3 When you are finished recording the video, tap .
  You can check the video in Gallery.
       To change the screen recorder settings, open Settings and tap Advanced features
       → Screenshots and screen recorder.



Entering text
Keyboard layout
A keyboard appears automatically when you enter text.

       Additional keyboard functions                      Access more keyboard functions.

   Enter uppercase. For all caps, tap                     Delete a preceding character.
                             it twice.

                      Enter symbols.                      Break to the next line.

                                                          Enter a space.

       Text entry is not supported in some languages. To enter text, you must change the
       input language to one of the supported languages.




                                             34
Getting started


Changing the input language
Tap → Languages and types → Manage input languages and select the languages
to use. When you select two or more languages, you can switch between the input
languages by tapping .

Changing the keyboard
On the navigation bar, tap          to change the keyboard.
To change the keyboard type, tap → Languages and types, select a language, and
then select the keyboard type you want.
       •    If the keyboard button ( ) does not appear on the navigation bar, open
            Settings, tap General management → Keyboard list and default, and then tap
            the Keyboard button on navigation bar switch to turn it on.
       •    On a 3 x 4 keyboard, a key has three or four characters. To enter a character, tap
            the corresponding key repeatedly until the desired character appears.

Additional keyboard functions
 •        : Enter emojis, stickers, and more. You can also enter your emoji stickers that look
      like you. Refer to Using your AR emoji stickers in chats for more information.
 •         : Add an item from the clipboard.
 •         : Switch to one-handed operation mode.
 •         : Enter text by voice.
 •         : Change the keyboard settings.
Tap         to use more keyboard functions.
 •          : Switch to handwriting mode.
 •         : Switch to the split keyboard.
 •       : Switch to the floating keyboard. You can move the keyboard to another location
      by dragging the tab.
 •         : Search for content and enter it.
 •         : Translate text and enter it.
 •         : Recognise text from documents or images and enter it.




                                                35
Getting started


 •       : Enter your personal information registered to Samsung Pass.
 •      : Find spelling and grammatical mistakes and get suggestions when writing in
      English.
 •       : Share music links.
 •       : Share video links.
 •       : Enter emojis.
 •       : Attach GIFs.
 •       /   /    : Enter stickers.
 •       : Change the keyboard size.
 •       : Open the text editing panel.
       Some features may not be available depending on the carrier or model.


Copying and pasting
1 Touch and hold over text.
2 Drag or to select the desired text, or tap Select all to select all text.
3 Tap Copy or Cut.
     The selected text is copied to the clipboard.
4 Touch and hold where the text is to be inserted and tap Paste.
     To paste text that you have previously copied, tap Clipboard and select the text.




                                              36
Apps and features
Installing or uninstalling apps
Galaxy Store
Purchase and download apps. You can download apps that are specialised for Samsung
Galaxy devices.
Open the Galaxy Store app. Browse apps by category or tap      to search for a keyword.
      •   This app may not be available depending on the carrier or model.
      •   To change the auto update settings, tap Menu →     → Auto update apps, and
          then select an option.


Play Store
Purchase and download apps.
Open the Play Store app. Browse apps by category or search for apps by keyword.
      To change the auto update settings, tap your account icon, tap Settings → Network
      preferences → Auto-update apps, and then select an option.


Managing apps
Uninstalling or disabling apps
Touch and hold an app and select an option.
 •   Uninstall: Uninstall downloaded apps.
 •   Disable: Disable selected default apps that cannot be uninstalled from the device.
      Some apps may not support this feature.


Enabling apps
Open Settings, tap Apps →       → Disabled → OK, select an app, and then tap Enable.




                                             37
Apps and features


Setting app permissions
For some apps to operate properly, they may need permission to access or use
information on your device.
To access your app permission settings, open Settings and tap Apps. Select an app and
tap Permissions. You can check the app’s permissions list and change its permissions.
To check or change app permission settings by permission category, open Settings and
tap Apps → → Permission manager. Select an item and select an app.
     If you do not grant permissions to apps, the basic features of the apps may not
     function properly.



S Pen (Galaxy S23 Ultra)
Using the S Pen

                S Pen button




     •   Do not bend or apply excessive pressure with the S Pen while using it. The S Pen
         may be damaged or the nib may be deformed.
     •   Do not hard press on the screen with the S Pen. The pen nib may be deformed.
     •   If there is a magnet near the device, some S Pen actions, such as charging or
         tapping the touch screen, may not work.
     •   Even if the S Pen has been fully discharged, you can use other S Pen features,
         such as tapping the touch screen or the Air command features.
     •   If you use the S Pen at sharp angles on the screen, the device may not recognise
         the S Pen actions.
     •   If water enters the S Pen slot, remove the water from the slot before using it.
     •   If the S Pen is not working properly, take it to a Samsung Service Centre or an
         authorised service centre.




                                             38
Apps and features


Detaching the S Pen
Press the end of the S Pen to disengage it. Then, pull the S Pen from the slot. To store
the S Pen, reinsert it into the slot and push it until it clicks into place.




                                                    2
                                              1




Charging the S Pen
The S Pen must be charged before you can control apps remotely by using the S Pen
button.
When you insert the S Pen into the slot, charging will start.
If the Air action feature is turned off, the S Pen will be charged only when the device is
charging.




                                             39
Apps and features


Air actions
(Controlling apps remotely with the S Pen)
Control apps remotely by using the S Pen connected to your device through Bluetooth
Low Energy (BLE).
For example, you can open apps, such as the camera app, by pressing and holding the
S Pen button. Also, while using the camera app, you can take a picture by pressing the
button once. While playing music, you can turn the volume up if you lift the S Pen up
while pressing and holding the S Pen button and turn the volume down if you lower it.
       •   The S Pen must be charged before you can use the Air actions feature. Refer to
           Charging the S Pen for more information.
       •   When you detach the S Pen from the slot, the icon will appear on the status
           bar. If the S Pen is discharged or far from the device, or if there are obstacles or
           there is external interference between the S Pen and the device, the S Pen will
           be disconnected from the device and the icon will turn grey ( ). To use the Air
           actions feature again, connect the S Pen with the device by reinserting the S Pen
           into the slot.

Taking pictures with the S Pen
Even though you take pictures with your device placing for a distance, you can take
pictures by pressing the S Pen button without setting a timer.
1 Open Settings, tap Advanced features → S Pen → Air actions, and then tap the
   switch to turn on the feature.
2 Open the Camera app.
3 Press the S Pen button once to take a picture.
   •   To take a series of pictures, press and hold the S Pen button.
   •   To change the shooting mode, move the S Pen to the left or right while pressing
       and holding the S Pen button.
   •   To switch between cameras, press the S Pen button twice.




                                               40
Apps and features


Changing apps or features to use
Change the app, feature, or actions you want to use with the S Pen feature. Open
Settings, tap Advanced features → S Pen → Air actions.




   Set an app or a feature to launch.

                                                        Set actions for each gesture.




           Set actions for each app.




  Set actions for camera and media
                             apps.




                                           41
Apps and features


Resetting your S Pen
If the S Pen has connection problems or the S Pen disconnects often, reset the S Pen and
connect it again.
Insert the S Pen into the slot. Then, open Settings and tap Advanced features → S Pen
→ → Reset S Pen.
     •   You can only connect Samsung-approved S Pens that support Bluetooth Low
         Energy (BLE).
     •   Do not detach the S Pen from the device when it is being connected. Doing so
         will interrupt the process.


Air command
(Launching S Pen features and apps directly)
Air command is a menu that provides S Pen features and direct access to frequently used
apps.
To open the Air command panel, detach the S Pen from the slot or hover the S Pen over
the screen and press the S Pen button. You can also tap the Air command icon ( ) with
the S Pen.
Select a function or app on the Air command panel.
     When the screen is off or locked with a screen lock method, removing the S Pen
     will not open the Air command panel.




                                                         S Pen battery power level




                    S Pen settings




                                           42
Apps and features


 •   Create note: Create notes in a pop-up window. You can also launch this feature by
     double tapping the screen while pressing and holding the S Pen button. Refer to
     Samsung Notes for more information.
 •   View all notes: Access all notes in the Samsung Notes app.
 •   Smart select: Use the S Pen to select an area and perform actions, such as sharing or
     saving. Refer to Smart select for more information.
 •   Screen write: Capture screenshots to write or draw on them or crop an area from the
     captured image. You can also capture the current content and the hidden content on
     an elongated page, such as a webpage. Refer to Screen write for more information.
 •   Live messages: Instead of text message, create and send a unique message by
     recording your actions while handwriting or drawing a live message and saving it as
     an animated file. Refer to Live messages for more information.
 •   AR Doodle: Record fun videos with virtual handwriting or drawings on faces or
     anywhere else. Refer to AR Doodle for more information.
 •   Translate: Hover the S Pen over a word to translate it. Refer to Translate for more
     information.
 •   PENUP: Post your artwork, check out others’ artwork, and get useful drawing tips.
 •   Bixby Vision: Use the Bixby Vision features to search for similar images, detect and
     translate text, and more. Refer to Bixby Vision for more information.
 •   Magnify: Hover the S Pen over an area of the screen to enlarge it.
 •   Glance: Reduce an app to a thumbnail and hover the S Pen over the thumbnail to
     open the app in full screen. Refer to Glance for more information.
 •   Write on calendar: Open the Calendar app and write or draw on the screen. Refer to
     Write on calendar for more information.
 •   Colouring: Add colours to images provided by PENUP using the S Pen.
 •   Add: Add shortcuts to frequently used apps to the Air command panel.




                                             43
Apps and features


Air command icon
When the Air command panel is closed, the Air command icon will remain on the screen.
You can open the Air command panel by tapping the icon with the S Pen.
To move the icon, drag     to a new location.
To remove the icon, drag     to Remove at the bottom of the screen.
If the Air command icon does not appear on the screen, open Settings, tap Advanced
features → S Pen → Air command, and then tap the Show Air command icon switch to
turn it on.
While using apps that support the Air actions feature, you can check out the actions
available with each app by hovering the S Pen over the Air command icon.


Smart select
Use the S Pen to select an area and perform actions, such as sharing or saving. You can
also select an area from a video and capture it as a GIF.
1 When there is content you want to capture, such as a part of an image, open the Air
   command panel and tap Smart select.
2 Select a desired shape icon on the toolbar and drag the S Pen across the content you
   want to select.




                                            44
Apps and features


3 Select an option to use with the selected area.
   •   Pin/Insert: Pin the selected area to the screen. You can also insert the image into
       other apps, such as Samsung Notes. Drag the image to the other app’s screen.
   •       : Extract text from the selected area.
   •       : Automatically changes the appearance of the selected area.
   •      : Write or draw on the selected area.
   •      : Share the selected area with others.
   •      : Save the selected area in Gallery.

Capturing an area from a video
While playing a video, select an area and capture it as a GIF.
1 When there is content you want to capture during video playback, open the Air
   command panel and tap Smart select.
2 On the toolbar, tap .
3 Adjust the position and size of the capturing area.
       Adjust the position.
                                                                     Drag a corner of the
                                                                     frame to resize.




4 Tap Record to start capturing.
       •   Before capturing a video, make sure that the video is playing.
       •   The maximum duration you can capture an area of the video for will be displayed
           on the screen.
       •   When capturing an area from a video, its sound will not be recorded.
5 Tap Stop to stop capturing.




                                              45
Apps and features


6 Select an option to use with the selected area.
   •   Pin/Insert: Pin the selected area to the screen. You can also insert the GIF into
       other apps, such as Samsung Notes. Drag the GIF to the other app’s screen.
   •      : Write or draw on the selected area. Tap    to check the result before saving
       the file.
   •      : Share the selected area with others.
   •      : Save the selected area in Gallery.

Screen write
Capture screenshots to write or draw on them or crop an area from the captured image.
1 When there is content you want to capture, open the Air command panel and tap
  Screen write.
  The current screen is automatically captured and the editing toolbar appears.
2 Write a memo on the screenshot.




                      Pen settings
                                                           Save
                            Eraser
                                                           Share
                            Undo
                                                           Redo

3 Share or save the screenshot.
  You can check the captured screenshots in Gallery.
       It is not possible to capture a screenshot while using some apps.




                                             46
Apps and features


Live messages
(Recording and sending the message creation process)
Instead of a text message, create and send a unique message by recording your actions
while handwriting or drawing a live message and saving it as an animated file.
1 When you want to send an animated message, open the Air command panel and tap
  Live messages.
2 Customise background image and tap Done or Start drawing.
3 Write or draw on the live message screen.
      Change the
      file format.


     Pen settings




                                                                       Preview

                                                                       Message input
                                                                       limit

                                                                       Start over.

                                                                       Undo

4 Tap Done.
  The live message will be saved in Gallery as a GIF or a video.
5 Tap Share and select a method.




                                           47
Apps and features


Translate
Hover the S Pen over the text you want to translate. The units included in the text will
also be converted.
1 When there is text you want to translate, open the Air command panel and tap
   Translate.
2 Select the languages on the translator panel at the top of the screen.
   You can change the text between words and sentences by tapping          or    .
3 Hover the S Pen over the text you want to translate or the unit you want to convert.
   The translated text will appear. To listen to the pronunciation of the original text, tap
     . The    icon may not appear depending on the language you select.

   Select languages.

      Text selecting
   granularity (word
       or sentence)




   Translation result




     •   This feature does not support some languages.
     •   This feature is available only when detectable text is on the screen.




                                             48
Apps and features


Bixby Vision
When you hover the S Pen over the content, the content is recognised and available
search icons will appear. Use the features to search for similar images, detect and
translate text, and more. Refer to Bixby Vision for more information.
1 When there is an image you want to search for relevant information or extract text
  from, open the Air command panel and tap Bixby Vision.
2 Hover the S Pen over the content you want. When the available options appear on the
  screen, select an option you want.




Glance
Reduce an app to a thumbnail and hover the S Pen over the thumbnail to open the app in
full screen.
For example, open a map app, open the Air command panel, and then tap Glance.
The app will be reduced to a thumbnail at the bottom of the screen. While browsing
webpages, hover the S Pen over the thumbnail to open the map app on the full screen
and search for places.
Hover the S Pen away from the screen to reduce the app to a thumbnail again.
To close the minimised app, drag the thumbnail to Remove at the top of the screen.




           Thumbnail




                                           49
Apps and features


Write on calendar
Fill in your plans by writing or drawing on the calendar screen.
Open the Air command panel, tap Write on calendar, and then fill in your plans on the
calendar. When you are finished, tap Save. To edit it, tap .




                            Undo


                      Pen settings                          Select and edit.

                           Eraser                           Redo



S Pen to text
You can set the device to convert anything you write with the S Pen into text.
1 Open Settings, tap Advanced features → S Pen → S Pen to text, and then tap the
   switch to turn it on.
     To learn about how to edit text with the S Pen, tap How to edit.

2 Write in a text input field, such as a search field or address bar, using the S Pen.
   The handwriting will be converted to text.




                                             50
Apps and features


Air view
Hover the S Pen over an item on the screen to preview content or access information in a
pop-up window.
In some apps, Action buttons will be displayed on the preview window.




                                                                    Action buttons




     If this feature is not turned on, open Settings, tap Advanced features → S Pen, and
     then tap the Air view switch to turn it on.


Pen Select
(Selecting items quickly with the S Pen)
While pressing and holding the S Pen button, drag the S Pen over text or item lists to
select multiple items or text. You can also copy and paste the selected items or text into
another app or share them with others.




                                            51
Apps and features


Screen off memos
You can create memos by writing on the screen without turning on it.
When the screen is off, detach the S Pen or double tap the screen while pressing and
holding the S Pen button.
When you tap Save or reinsert the S Pen into the slot after writing a memo, the memo
will be saved to Samsung Notes.

           Change the pen colour.                        Save the memo in Samsung
                                                         Notes.
        Change the line thickness.
                                                         Pin the memo on the Always On
                                                         Display.
                           Eraser




                                                         Extend the page.

     If this feature is not turned on, open Settings, tap Advanced features → S Pen, and
     then tap the Screen off memos switch to turn it on.




                                           52
Apps and features


Pinning a memo on the Always On Display
To pin a screen off memo on the Always On Display, tap      → Pin to Always On Display.
The pinned memo will not be saved yet.
To edit the pinned memo, double tap the memo. If you pin the edited memo on the
Always On Display again, the original memo will be saved to Samsung Notes.
To minimise the pinned memo, double tap . The memo will be displayed as the          icon
on the Always On Display. To check out the memo again, double tap .




                                                          Pinned memo



               Minimise the memo.




     If you do not perform any actions for a certain period after opening a memo, the
     memo will be automatically minimised.


Unlocking the screen using the S Pen
If the screen is locked while the S Pen is connected, you can unlock the screen by
pressing the S Pen button.
1 Open Settings and tap Advanced features → S Pen → More S Pen settings.
2 Tap the S Pen unlock switch to turn it on.
   Now you can unlock the screen by pressing the S Pen button.
     •   The S Pen unlock feature is available only when the screen lock method is set.
     •   To use this feature, the S Pen must be connected to your device.




                                            53
Apps and features



Phone
Introduction
Make or answer voice and video calls.


Making calls
1 Open the Phone app and tap Keypad.
2 Enter a phone number.
3 Tap to make a voice call, or tap       or     to make a video call.

                                                          More options
    Add the number to the contacts
                              list.                       Search for a contact.
        Preview the phone number.




Making calls from call logs or contacts list
Open the Phone app, tap Recents or Contacts, and then swipe to the right on a contact
or a phone number to make a call.
If this feature is turned off, tap → Settings → Other call settings, and then tap the
Swipe to call or text switch to turn it on.




                                           54
Apps and features


Using speed dial
To set a number to speed dial, open the Phone app, tap Keypad → → Speed dial
numbers, select a speed dial number, and then add a phone number.
To make a call, touch and hold a speed dial number on the keypad. For speed dial
numbers 10 and up, tap the first digit(s) of the number, and then touch and hold the last
digit.
For example, if you set the number 123 as a speed dial number, tap 1, tap 2, and then
touch and hold 3.

Making an international call
1 Open the Phone app and tap Keypad.
2 Touch and hold 0 until the + sign appears.
3 Enter the country code, area code, and phone number, and then tap       .


Receiving calls
Answering a call
When a call comes in, drag    outside the large circle.

Rejecting a call
When a call comes in, drag    outside the large circle.
To send a message when rejecting an incoming call, drag the Send message bar upwards
and select a message to send.
To create various rejection messages, open the Phone app, tap → Settings → Quick
decline messages, enter a message, and then tap .




                                           55
Apps and features


Blocking phone numbers
Block calls from specific numbers added to your block list.
Open the Phone app, tap → Settings → Block numbers, and then select contacts or
phone numbers to save in the blocked numbers list.
When blocked numbers try to contact you, you will not receive notifications. The calls
will be logged in the call log.
      You can also block incoming calls from people that do not show their caller ID. Tap
      the Block calls from unknown numbers switch to turn the feature on.


Options during calls
 •   Add call: Dial a second call. The first call will be put on hold. When you end the
     second call, the first call will be resumed.
 •   Hold call: Hold a call.
 •   Video call: Switch to a video call.
 •   Bluetooth: Switch to a Bluetooth headset if it is connected to the device.
 •   Speaker: Turn speakerphone off or on. When using the speakerphone, keep the
     device away from your ears.
 •   Mute: Turn off the microphone so that the other party cannot hear you.
 •   Keypad / Hide: Open or close the keypad.
 •      : End the current call.
 •      : During a video call, switch to a voice call.
 •      : Set the device to change the angle and zoom automatically by recognising and
     tracking people during a video call.
 •      : During a video call, lock the screen.
 •   Effects: During a video call, apply various effects.
 •      : During a video call, change the screen ratio.
 •   Camera: During a video call, turn off the camera so that the other party cannot see
     you.
 •   Switch: During a video call, switch between the front and rear cameras.
      Some features may not be available depending on the carrier or model.




                                               56
Apps and features



Contacts
Introduction
Create new contacts or manage contacts on the device.


Adding contacts
Creating a new contact
1 Open the Contacts app and tap            .
2 Select a storage location.
3 Enter contact information and tap Save.

Importing contacts
Add contacts by importing them from other storages to your device.
1 Open the Contacts app and tap            → Manage contacts → Import contacts.
2 Follow the on-screen instructions to import contacts.

Syncing contacts with your web accounts
Sync your device contacts with online contacts saved in your web accounts, such as your
Samsung account.
1 Open Settings, tap Accounts and backup → Manage accounts and select the account
     to sync with.
2 Tap Sync account and tap the Contacts switch to turn it on.

Searching for contacts
Open the Contacts app. Tap           at the top of the contacts list and enter search criteria.
Tap the contact. Then take one of the following actions:
 •       : Make a voice call.
 •       : Compose a message.
 •       /    : Make a video call.
 •       : Compose an email.


                                                 57
Apps and features


Deleting contacts
1 Open the Contacts app and tap → Edit.
2 Select contacts and tap Delete.
To delete contacts one by one, tap a contact from the contacts list and tap More →
Delete.


Sharing contacts
You can share contacts with others by using various sharing options.
1 Open the Contacts app and tap → Edit.
2 Select contacts and tap Share.
3 Select a sharing method.

Creating groups
You can add groups, such as family or friends, and manage contacts by group.
1 Open the Contacts app and tap      → Groups → Create group.
2 Follow the on-screen instructions to create a group.

Merging duplicate contacts
If your contacts list includes duplicate contacts, merge them into one to streamline your
contacts list.
1 Open the Contacts app and tap      → Manage contacts → Merge contacts.
2 Tick contacts and tap Merge.




                                           58
Apps and features



Messages
Introduction
Send and check messages by conversation.
You may incur additional charges for sending or receiving messages when you are
roaming.


Sending messages
1 Open the Messages app and tap        .
2 Add recipients and enter a message.
  To record and send a voice message, touch and hold , and say your message. The
  recording icon appears only while the message input field is empty.
3 Tap      to send the message.


                        Recipient                        Enter recipients.



                 Enter a message.                        Enter emojis or stickers.


                      Attach files.                      Send the message.



Checking messages
1 Open the Messages app and tap Conversations.
2 On the messages list, select a contact or a phone number.
   •   To reply to the message, tap the message input field, enter a message, and then
       tap .
   •   To adjust the font size, spread two fingers apart or pinch on the screen.




                                           59
Apps and features


Sorting messages
You can sort messages by category.
Open the Messages app and tap Conversations →         .
If the category option does not appear, tap → Settings and tap the Conversation
categories switch to turn it on.

Deleting messages
Touch and hold a message to delete, then tap Delete.


Changing message settings
Open the Messages app, tap → Settings. You can block unwanted messages, change
notification settings, and more.



Camera
Introduction
Take pictures and record videos using various modes and settings.
Camera etiquette
 •   Do not take pictures or record videos of other people without their permission.
 •   Do not take pictures or record videos where legally prohibited.
 •   Do not take pictures or record videos in places where you may violate other people’s
     privacy.




                                            60
Apps and features


Taking pictures
1 Open the Camera app.
  You can also open the app by pressing the Side key twice or dragging         to the left on
  the locked screen.
     •   Some camera features are not available when you open the Camera app from
         the locked screen or when the screen is turned off while the screen lock method
         is set.
     •   The camera automatically shuts off when unused.
     •   Some methods may not be available depending on the carrier or model.
2 Tap the image on the preview screen where the camera should focus.
  To adjust the brightness of pictures, drag the adjustment bar that appears above or
  below the circular frame.
3 Tap    to take a picture.
  To change the shooting mode, drag the shooting modes list to the left or right, or
  swipe to the left or right on the preview screen.

                  Camera settings                        Options for current shooting
                                                         mode




                             Zoom


                                                         Shooting modes list

                Preview thumbnail
                                                         Switch between the front and
                    Take a picture.                      rear cameras.




                                           61
Apps and features


      •   The preview screen may vary depending on the shooting mode and which
          camera is being used.
      •   The focus may not be clear if the subject is close. Take pictures or videos from a
          good distance.
      •   If pictures you take appear blurry, clean the camera lens and try again.
      •   Make sure that the lens is not damaged or contaminated. Otherwise, the device
          may not work properly in some modes that require high resolutions.
      •   Your device’s camera features a wide-angle lens. Minor distortion may occur
          in wide-angle pictures or videos and does not indicate device performance
          problems.
      •   The maximum capacity for recording a video may vary depending on the
          resolution.
      •   The camera may fog up or form condensation if the device is exposed to sudden
          changes in air temperature, because of the difference in temperature outside
          and inside the camera cover. Try to avoid such conditions when planning to use
          the camera. If fogging does occur, allow the camera to dry naturally at room
          temperature before taking pictures or recording videos, otherwise results may
          look blurry.

Using zoom features
Select 0.6x/1x/3x/10x or drag it to the left or right to zoom in or out. Alternatively,
spread two fingers apart on the screen to zoom in, and pinch to zoom out. If the zoom
ratio exceeds a certain level, a zoom guide map will appear to indicate where you are
zooming in on the image.
 •   0.6x: You can take wide-angle pictures and record wide-angle videos of landscapes
     with the Ultra wide camera.
 •   1x: Take pictures and record video with normal proportions using the wide-angle
     camera.
 •   3x: Take pictures and record videos with enlarged subjects using the telephoto
     camera (3x).
 •   10x: Take pictures or record videos of an enlarged subject using the telephoto
     camera (10x). (Galaxy S23 Ultra)
      Zoom features are available only when using the rear camera.




                                              62
Apps and features


Locking the focus (AF) and exposure (AE)
You can lock the focus or exposure on a selected area to prevent the camera from
automatically adjusting based on changes to the subjects or light sources.
Touch and hold the area to focus, the AF/AE frame will appear on the area and the focus
and exposure setting will be locked. The setting remains locked even after you take a
picture.
      This feature may not be available depending on the shooting mode.


Using the camera button
 •   Touch and hold the camera button to record a video.
 •   To take burst shots, swipe the camera button to the edge of the screen and hold it.
 •   If you add another camera button, you can move it anywhere on the screen and take
     pictures more conveniently. On the preview screen, tap → Shooting methods and
     tap the Floating Shutter button switch to turn it on.

Options for current shooting mode
On the preview screen, use the following options.
 •     : Turn the flash on or off.
 •      : Select the length of the delay before the camera automatically takes a picture.
 •      : Select an aspect ratio and resolution for pictures.
 •      : Turn the motion photo feature on or off. If you turn it on, a video clip will also be
     taken from a few seconds before tapping the camera button.
 •      : Turn the super steady feature on or off.
 •          : Change the recording time for hyperlapse videos.
 •      : Select a frame rate for hyperlapse videos.
 •      : Select an aspect ratio for videos.
 •      /       : Select a resolution for videos.
 •      : Apply a filter effect or beauty effects.




                                                    63
Apps and features


 •      : Select a metering method. This determines how light values are calculated.
        Centre-weighted metering uses the light in the centre portion of the shot to
     calculate the exposure of the shot. Matrix metering averages the entire scene.
     Spot metering uses the light in a concentrated centre area of the shot to calculate
     the exposure of the shot.
 •      : Adjust the colour tone.
 •     : In FOOD mode, focus on a subject inside the frame and blur the image outside
     the frame.
 •     : In FOOD mode, adjust the colour temperature.
 •      : Turn the motion detection feature on or off when recording super slow-mo
     videos.
 •     : In DIRECTOR’S VIEW mode, change the saving option.
 •      : In DIRECTOR’S VIEW mode, change the screen.
 •      : Customise the shooting options when taking single take shots.
      The available options may vary depending on the model or shooting mode.


Photo mode
The camera adjusts the shooting options automatically depending on the surroundings.
On the shooting modes list, tap PHOTO and tap       to take a picture.

Taking high-resolution pictures
Take high-resolution pictures.
In the shooting options, tap     →    or     and take a picture.
      The resolution may vary depending on the model.




                                            64
Apps and features


Shot suggestions
The camera suggests the ideal composition for the picture by recognising the position
and angle of your subject.
On the preview screen, tap      and tap the Shot suggestions switch to turn it on.
1 On the shooting modes list, tap PHOTO.
   A guide will appear on the preview screen.
2 Point the guide at the subject.
   The camera recognises the composition, and the recommended composition appears
   on the preview screen.
3 Move the device so the guide matches the recommended composition.
   When the ideal composition is achieved, the guide will change to yellow.
4 Tap     to take a picture.


   Ideal composition




              Guide




Taking selfies
You can take self-portraits with the front camera.
1 On the preview screen, swipe upwards or downwards, or tap         to switch to the front
   camera for self-portraits.
2 Face the front camera lens.
   To take self-portraits with a wide-angle shot of the landscape or people, tap     .
3 Tap     to take a picture.




                                            65
Apps and features


Taking clear close-up pictures (Galaxy S23 Ultra)
Take clear close-up pictures of your subject.
1 On the preview screen, tap 1x.
2 Put the camera near to the subject.
3 When appears, tap to take a picture.
       If this feature is not turned on, tap    to turn it on.

Applying filter and beauty effects
You can select a filter effect and modify facial features, such as your skin tone or face
shape, before taking a picture.
1 On the preview screen, tap        .
2 Select effects and take a picture.
   If you tap , you can download filters from Galaxy Store, or you can create your own
   filter using an image with a colour tone you like from Gallery.


Video mode
The camera adjusts the shooting options automatically depending on the surroundings.
1 On the shooting modes list, tap VIDEO and tap           to record a video.
   •   To switch between the front and rear cameras while recording, swipe upwards or
       downwards on the preview screen or tap .
   •   To capture an image from the video while recording, tap .
   •   To record the sound from a specific direction at a higher volume while recording a
       video, point the camera towards that direction and adjust the zoom.
2 Tap         to stop recording the video.
       •   If you use the video zoom feature for a long time while recording a video, the
           video quality may diminish to prevent your device from overheating.
       •   The optical zoom may not work in low-light environments.




                                               66
Apps and features


Recording high-resolution videos
Record high-resolution videos with a maximum resolution of 8K.
Tap    →     and record a video.
When you finish recording a video, play the video in the Gallery app. When you tap          on
a frame that you like, the frame will be saved as a high-resolution picture.

Stabilising videos (Super steady)
If there is a lot of shaking when recording videos, use the Super steady feature for
further video stabilisation.
Tap VIDEO on the shooting modes list, tap         on the shooting options to turn it on, and
then record a video.

Using the auto framing feature
(Changing the shooting angle and zoom by tracking people)
You can set the device to change the shooting angle and zoom automatically by
recognising and tracking people while recording videos.
On the shooting modes list, tap VIDEO, tap        to turn it on, and then record a video.
To track and adjust the shooting angle and zoom in on a selected person, tap the frame
that is displayed around the person. To turn off tracking, tap the frame again.


Director’s view mode
Record videos with various angles of view by changing cameras. You can save the videos
of the front and rear cameras separately and edit them. You can also play the videos in
various ways, such as in split view or picture-in-picture view.
1 On the shooting modes list, tap MORE → DIRECTOR’S VIEW.
2 Select the screen and the camera thumbnail you want and tap          to record a video.
   •   To save the videos of the front and rear cameras separately, tap .
   •   To change the screen before starting the recording, tap and select the screen
       you want.
   •   You can change the camera thumbnail while recording. If the thumbnail is hidden,
       tap     to display it.




                                             67
Apps and features


3 Tap      to stop recording the video.
          Change the saving option.

                                                             Change the screen.

                                                             Picture-in-picture window




                        Thumbnail




Controlling the picture-in-picture window while playing the video
If you set the screen to Picture-in-picture view, you can change the size or location of
the picture-in-picture window while recording or playing the video.
1 On the preview screen, tap          to change the saving option to    Save front and rear
  as separate 16:9 videos.
2 Tap    to record a video.
  You can change the size or location of the picture-in-picture window before and
  during recording.
   •   To enlarge the picture-in-picture window, tap the window and tap .
   •   To move the picture-in-picture window, drag it to wherever you want.
3 Tap      to stop recording the video.
You can also control the picture-in-picture window while playing the video. Tap the
preview thumbnail on the preview screen, or open the Gallery app and select the video,
and then tap → Open in Video player.




                                               68
Apps and features


Single take mode
Take various pictures and videos in one shot.
Your device automatically selects the best shot and creates pictures with filters or videos
with certain sections repeated.
1 On the shooting modes list, tap MORE → SINGLE TAKE.
2 Tap to capture the scene you want.
3 When you are finished, tap the preview thumbnail.
   To check other results, drag the icon upwards. To save the results individually, tap
   Select, tick the items you want, and then tap .


     Customise the
  shooting options.




                                            69
Apps and features


Portrait mode / Portrait video mode
By using Portrait mode or Portrait video mode, you can capture pictures or videos where
the background is blurred and the subject stands out clearly. You can also apply a
background effect and edit it after taking a picture.
1 On the shooting modes list, tap PORTRAIT or tap MORE → PORTRAIT VIDEO.
2 Tap    and select a background effect you want.
  To adjust the intensity of the background effect, drag the adjustment bar.
3 When Ready appears on the preview screen, tap            to take a picture or tap   to
  record a video.




                                                             Background effects
         Background effect intensity
                    adjustment bar

     •   The available options may vary depending on the shooting mode.
     •   Use this feature in a place that has sufficient light.
     •   The background blur may not be applied properly in the following conditions:
          ‒ The device or the subject is moving.
          ‒ The subject is thin or transparent.
          ‒ The subject has a similar colour to the background.
          ‒ The subject or background is plain.




                                              70
Apps and features


Pro mode / Pro video mode
Capture pictures or videos while manually adjusting various shooting options, such as
exposure value and ISO value.
On the shooting modes list, tap MORE → PRO or PRO VIDEO. Select options and
customise the settings, and then tap  to take a picture or tap to record a video.

Available options
 •       : Reset the settings.
 •    ISO: Select an ISO value. This controls camera light sensitivity. Low values are for
      stationary or brightly lit objects. Higher values are for fast-moving or poorly lit
      objects. However, higher ISO settings can result in noise in pictures or videos.
 •    SPEED: Adjust the shutter speed. A slow shutter speed allows more light in, so the
      picture or video becomes brighter. This is ideal for pictures or videos of scenery or
      pictures or videos taken at night. A fast shutter speed allows less light in. This is
      ideal for capturing pictures or videos of fast-moving subjects.
 •    EV: Change the exposure value. This determines how much light the camera’s sensor
      receives. For low-light situations, use a higher exposure.
 •    FOCUS: Change the focus mode. Drag the adjustment bar to manually adjust the
      focus.
 •    WB: Select an appropriate white balance, so images have a true-to-life colour range.
      You can set the colour temperature.
 •    MIC: Select which direction’s sound you want to record at a higher level. You can also
      use a USB or Bluetooth microphone by connecting it to your device (Pro video mode).
 •    ZOOM: Adjust the zoom speed (Pro video mode).

Recording high-resolution pro videos
Record high-resolution pro videos with a maximum resolution of 8K.
Tap      →    or   and record a pro video.
When you finish recording a pro video, play it in the Gallery app. When you tap        on a
frame that you like, the frame will be saved as a high-resolution picture.




                                              71
Apps and features


Separating the focus area and the exposure area
You can separate the focus area and the exposure area.
Touch and hold the preview screen. The AF/AE frame will appear on the screen. Drag the
frame to the area where you want to separate the focus area and the exposure area.




Night mode
Take a picture in low-light conditions, without using the flash. When you use a tripod,
you can get brighter and steadier results.
1 On the shooting modes list, tap MORE → NIGHT.
   If you set the time that appears at the right bottom of the screen to Max, you may get
   clearer pictures.
2 Tap     and hold your device steady until shooting is complete.


Food mode
Take pictures of food with more vibrant colours.
1 On the shooting modes list, tap MORE → FOOD.
   A frame will appear on the screen and the area outside the frame will be blurred.
2 To resize the frame, drag a corner of the frame.
   Tap the area you want or drag the frame to move it.
3 Tap and drag the adjustment bar to adjust the colour temperature.
4 Tap to take a picture.




                                            72
Apps and features


Panorama mode
Using panorama mode, take a series of pictures and then stitch them together to create
a wide scene.
1 On the shooting modes list, tap MORE → PANORAMA.
2 Tap     and move the device slowly in one direction.
  Keep the image within the frame on the camera’s viewfinder. If the preview image is
  out of the guide frame or you do not move the device, the device will automatically
  stop taking pictures.
3 Tap     to stop taking pictures.
     Avoid taking pictures of indistinct backgrounds, such as an empty sky or a plain
     wall.


Super Slow-mo mode
Super slow motion is a feature that records a quickly passing moment slowly so that you
can appreciate it later.
1 On the shooting modes list, tap MORE → SUPER SLOW-MO and tap               to record a
  video.
  The device will capture the moment in super slow motion and save it as a video.
2 On the preview screen, tap the preview thumbnail.
  To edit the super slow motion section, tap    and drag the section editing bar to the
  left or right.

                                                            Section editing bar

      Super slow motion section
                                                            End bracket
                  Start bracket

     Use this feature in a place that has sufficient light. When recording a video indoors
     with insufficient or poor lighting, the screen may appear dark or be grainy. The
     screen may flicker in certain lighting conditions, such as in places with fluorescent
     lighting.




                                           73
Apps and features


Recording super slow motion videos automatically
To capture the moment in super slow motion when motion is detected in the motion
detection area, tap to turn it on. The motion detection feature will be turned on and
the motion detection area will appear on the preview screen.
Tap    to start recording. When motion is detected, the device will begin recording in
super slow motion and save it as a video.
     Super slow motion recording may start at an unwanted moment if there are
     conditions such as the following:
     •   When the device shakes or when another object is moving near the subject in the
         motion detection area.
     •   When recording under flickering light, such as in places with fluorescent
         lighting.


Slow motion mode
Record a video for viewing it in slow motion. You can specify sections of your videos to be
played in slow motion.
1 On the shooting modes list, tap MORE → SLOW MOTION and tap               to record a video.
2 When you are finished recording, tap to stop.
3 On the preview screen, tap the preview thumbnail.
   The fast section of the video will be set as a slow motion section and the video will
   start playing. Up to two slow motion sections will be created based on the video.
   To edit the slow motion section, tap and drag the section editing bar to the left or
   right.

                                                             Section editing bar

            Slow motion section
                                                             End bracket

                  Start bracket




                                            74
Apps and features


Hyperlapse mode
Record scenes, such as passing people or cars, and view them as fast-motion videos.
1 On the shooting modes list, tap MORE → HYPERLAPSE.
2 Tap         and select a frame rate option.
     •   If you set the frame rate to , the device will automatically adjust the frame rate
         according to the changing rate of the scene.
     •   If you want to record star trails, set the frame rate to and tap .
3 Tap        to start recording.
4 Tap        to finish recording.


Customising camera settings
On the preview screen, tap          . Some options may not be available depending on the
shooting mode.

Intelligent features
 •   Scene optimiser: Set the device to adjust the colour settings and apply the
     optimised effect automatically depending on the subject or scene.
 •   Shot suggestions: Set the device to suggest the ideal composition for the picture by
     recognising the position and angle of your subject.
 •   Scan QR codes: Set the device to scan QR codes from the preview screen.
Pictures
 •   Swipe Shutter button to: Select an action to perform when you swipe the camera
     button to the edge of the screen and hold it.
 •   Watermark: Add a watermark in the bottom left corner when taking pictures.
 •   Advanced picture options: Select how you want to save picture.
     ‒ High efficiency pictures: Take pictures in the High Efficiency Image Format
       (HEIF).
     ‒ Pro mode picture format: Select the file format for saving pictures taken in pro
       mode. JPEG files compress pictures and take up less storage. RAW files (DNG file
       format) retain all of a picture’s data for the best image quality and save pictures
       as uncompressed, but they take up more storage. When you select RAW and JPEG
       formats, each picture is saved in two formats, DNG and JPG.




                                                75
Apps and features


Selfies
 •   Save selfies as previewed: Set the device to save pictures as they appear on the
     preview screen when taken with the front camera without flipping them.
Videos
 •   Auto FPS: Set the device to record brighter videos in low-light conditions by
     automatically optimising the frame rate.
 •   Video stabilisation: Turn on anti-shake to reduce or eliminate blurry image resulting
     from camera shake while recording a video.
 •   Advanced video options: Set the device to use an advanced recording option.
     ‒ High efficiency videos: You can record videos in the High Efficiency Video Codec
       (HEVC) format. Your HEVC videos will be saved as compressed files to conserve
       the device’s storage.
     ‒ High bitrate videos (Pro video): Increase the bitrate of videos recorded in pro
       video mode. If you use this feature, the file size may be larger than normal videos.
     ‒ HDR10+ videos: You can record videos in which each scene’s contrast and colour
       are optimised.
     ‒ Zoom-in mic: While recording a video, you can record sound from the zoomed-in
       direction at a higher volume.
     ‒ 360 audio recording: You can record more immersive 3D sound videos using
       Bluetooth headphones that support the 360 audio recording feature.
         • You might not be able to play the HEVC videos on other devices or share

           them online.
          •   You cannot record videos in the HEVC format in some shooting modes.
          •   To play the HDR10+ video properly, the device must support HDR10+.




                                             76
Apps and features


General
 •   Tracking auto-focus: Set the device to track and automatically focus on a selected
     subject. When you select a subject on the preview screen, the device will focus on
     the subject even if the subject is moving or you change the camera’s position.
          Tracking a subject may fail in the following conditions:
          •   The subject is too big or too small.
          •   The subject moves excessively.
          •   The subject is backlit or you are shooting in a dark place.
          •   Colours or patterns on the subject and the background are the same.
          •   The subject includes horizontal patterns, such as blinds.
          •   The camera shakes excessively.
          •   The video resolution is high.
          •   When zooming in or out using the optical zoom.
 •   Grid lines: Display viewfinder guides to help composition when selecting subjects.
 •   Location tags: Attach a GPS location tag to the picture.
          • GPS signal strength may decrease in locations where the signal is

            obstructed, such as between buildings or in low-lying areas, or in poor
            weather conditions.
          •   Your location may appear on your pictures when you upload them to the
              internet. To avoid this, turn off the location tag setting.
 •   Shooting methods: Select additional shooting methods for taking a picture or
     recording a video.
 •   Settings to keep: Keep the last settings you used, such as the shooting mode, when
     you open the camera.
 •   Vibration feedback: Set the device to vibrate in certain situations, such as when you
     tap the camera button.
Privacy
 •   Privacy Notice: Access the Privacy Notice.
 •   Permissions: Access the permissions required to use the Camera app.
 •   Reset settings: Reset the camera settings.
 •   About Camera: Check the Camera app version and legal information.
 •   Contact us: Ask questions or check out the frequently asked questions.
      Some features may not be available depending on the model.


                                               77
Apps and features



Gallery
Introduction
Access images and videos stored in your device. You can also manage images and videos
by album or create stories.


Using Gallery
Open the Gallery app.




                                                       More options

                                                       Search for images and videos.

                                                       Sync images and videos.




                                         78
Apps and features


Viewing images
Open the Gallery app and select an image. To view other files, swipe to the left or right
on the screen.

                                                          View the content on a large
                                                          screen using the Smart View
                                                          feature.

                                                          Bixby Vision




        Image and video thumbnail



       Add the image to favourites.                       More options

                 Modify the image.                        Delete the image.

                                                          Share the image with others.



Cropping enlarged images
1 Open the Gallery app and select an image.
2 Spread two fingers apart on the area you want to save and tap          .
   The cropped area will be saved as a file.




                                                                                Saved
                                                                                image
                                                                                thumbnail




                                               79
Apps and features


Viewing videos
Open the Gallery app and select a video to play. To view other files, swipe to the left or
right on the screen.
To use more options during playback, tap → Open in Video player.

    View the content on a                                           Configure the caption
   large screen using the                                           settings.
      Smart View feature.
                                                                    More options
              Create a GIF.
                                                                    Switch to the pop-up
                                                                    video player.
      Capture the current
                  screen.                                           Change the screen
                                                                    ratio.
         Lock the playback                                          Rotate the screen.
                    screen.

                                                                    Skip to the next video.
   Rewind or fast-forward                                           Touch and hold to
     by dragging the bar.                                           fast-forward.

      Skip to the previous                                          Pause and resume
    video. Touch and hold                                           playback.
                to rewind.


Drag up or down on the left side of the playback screen to adjust the brightness, or drag
up or down on the right side of the playback screen to adjust the volume.
To rewind or fast-forward, swipe to the left or right on the playback screen.

Viewing brighter and clearer videos
Enhance the image quality of your videos to enjoy brighter and more vivid colours. Open
Settings and tap Advanced features → Video brightness → Bright.
     •   This feature is only available in some apps.
     •   Using this feature will increase battery consumption.




                                             80
Apps and features


Albums
Create albums and sort your images and videos.
1 Open the Gallery app and tap Albums →          → Album to create an album.
2 Select the images or videos you want to copy or move them to an album.

Stories
When you capture or save images and videos, the device will read their date and location
tags, sort the images and videos, and then create stories.
Open the Gallery app, tap Stories, and then select a story. If you tap , you can use
various options, such as managing story content or changing the story title.
If you tap → Create story on the stories list, you can create stories manually.


Syncing images and videos
Open the Gallery app, tap , and then follow the on-screen instructions to complete
the sync. The Gallery app and the cloud will be synced.
When your Gallery app is synced with the cloud, pictures and videos you take will also be
saved in the cloud. You can access images and videos saved in the cloud in your Gallery
app and from other devices.
     When you connect your Samsung account and Microsoft account, you can set the
     cloud storage as Microsoft OneDrive.


Deleting images or videos
Open the Gallery app, touch and hold an image, a video, or a story to delete, and then tap
Delete.

Using the recycle bin feature
You can keep the deleted images and videos in the recycle bin. The files will be deleted
after a certain period.
Open the Gallery app, tap     → Settings, and then tap the Recycle bin switch to turn it
on.
To access files in the recycle bin, open the Gallery app and tap   → Recycle bin.




                                            81
Apps and features



AR Zone
Introduction
AR Zone provides you AR related features. Choose a feature and capture fun pictures or
videos.


Launching AR Zone
Use the following methods to launch AR Zone:
 •    Open the AR Zone app.
 •    Open the Camera app and tap MORE → AR ZONE.
       Some features may not be available depending on the carrier or model.


AR Emoji Studio
Create emojis any way you want and have fun using them in various features.

Creating an AR Emoji
1 Open the AR Zone app and tap AR Emoji Studio.
2 You can pick a pre-made emoji. Swipe to the left or right, select an emoji, and then
     tap .
     If you want to make your own emoji, take a selfie or select an image.




                                             82
Apps and features


3 Follow the on-screen instructions to create an emoji.

                                                                         More options

                                                                         My emojis list




                                                                         Edit the emoji.




Selecting an AR emoji to use
Open the AR Zone app, tap AR Emoji Studio →       , and then select an emoji you want.

Deleting AR emojis
Open the AR Zone app, tap AR Emoji Studio →       →    , tick emojis to delete, and then
tap Delete.

Creating an AR emoji short video and decorating your device with it
You can create a short video with an emoji and use it as a wallpaper or call background
image.
1 Open the AR Zone app and tap AR Emoji Studio.
2 Select Create video, Call screen, or Lock screen.
3 Select a template you want.
   To change the background image, tap       →    .
4 Tap Save to save the video.
   You can check the saved videos in Gallery.
5 To use the video directly, select an option at the bottom of the screen.




                                           83
Apps and features


Creating your contact profile with an AR emoji
Use an emoji as your profile picture for your Samsung account and in the Contacts app.
You can choose from various poses or create your own expressions.
1 Open the AR Zone app and tap AR Emoji Studio.
2 Tap Profile and select an emoji.
3 Tap to capture your expression or select a pose you want.
4 Tap Done → Save.




                                                        Take a picture.


                          Emoji



                                                        Pose




                                          84
Apps and features


AR Emoji Camera
Create fun pictures or videos with emojis using various shooting modes.
1 Open the AR Zone app and tap AR Emoji Camera.
2 Select the emoji and the mode you want to use. The available modes may vary
   depending on the emoji you select.
   • SCENE: The emoji mimics your expressions. You can also change the background

     image.
   • MASK: The emoji’s face appears over your face so it looks like you are wearing a

     mask.
   • MIRROR: The emoji mimics your body movements.

   • PLAY: The emoji moves on a real background.




3 Tap the emoji icon to take a picture, or touch and hold the icon to record a video.
   You can check and share the pictures and videos that you have captured in Gallery.


AR Emoji Stickers
When you create AR emojis, stickers with emoji expressions and actions will be created
automatically. You can also create your own stickers by changing the expression or
background. You can use your emoji stickers when sending messages or on a social
network.

Creating your own stickers
1 Open the AR Zone app and tap AR Emoji Stickers.
2 Tap at the top of the stickers list.
3 Edit stickers how you want and tap Save.
   You can access the stickers you have created at the top of the stickers list.




                                            85
Apps and features


Deleting AR emoji stickers
Open the AR Zone app and tap AR Emoji Stickers → → Edit. Select the emoji stickers to
delete and tap Delete.

Using your AR emoji stickers in chats
You can use your emoji stickers during a conversation through messages or on a social
network. The following actions are an example of using your emoji stickers in the
Messages app.
1 While composing a message in the Messages app, tap        on the Samsung keyboard.
2 Tap the emoji icon.
3 Select one of your emoji stickers.
   The emoji sticker will be inserted.




                                                        Emoji icon




                                          86
Apps and features


AR Doodle
(Record videos with the AR feature)
Record fun videos with virtual handwriting or drawings on people or pets’ (cat and dogs)
faces or anywhere else. When the camera recognises a face or space, the doodles on the
face will follow the face as it moves, and the doodles in the space will be fixed in the
same place even if the camera moves.
1 Open the AR Zone app and tap AR Doodle.
  When the camera recognises the subject, the recognition area will appear on the
  screen.
2 Write or draw in the recognition area.
   •   If you switch to the rear camera, you can also write or draw outside the recognition
       area.
   •   If you tap    and then begin to doodle, you can record yourself doodling.

                                                                          Delete doodle.

       Recognition
             area



              Text

              GIF
                                                                          Turn the sound
          Pen tool                                                        effect on or off.


          3D scan                                                         Redo

                                                                          Undo
            Eraser

3 Tap      to record a video.
4 Tap   to stop recording the video.
  You can check and share the video in Gallery.
       The available features on the preview screen may vary depending on which camera
       is being used.




                                            87
Apps and features



Bixby
Introduction
Bixby is a user interface that helps you use your device more conveniently.
You can talk to Bixby or type text. Bixby will launch a feature you request or show the
information you want. Visit www.samsung.com/bixby for more information.
      Bixby is only available in some languages, and it may not be available depending
      on the region.


Starting Bixby
Press and hold the Side key to launch Bixby. The Bixby intro page will appear. After you
select the language to use with Bixby, sign in to your Samsung account, and complete
the setup by following the on-screen instructions, the Bixby screen will appear.


Using Bixby
While pressing and holding the Side key, say what you want to Bixby. Alternatively, say
the wake-up phrase and say what you want.
For example, while pressing and holding the Side key, say “How’s the weather today?”
The weather information will appear on the screen.
If Bixby asks you a question during a conversation, you can continue to talk to Bixby
without pressing the Side key or tapping .

Waking up Bixby using your voice
You can start a conversation with Bixby by saying “Hi, Bixby” or “Bixby”. Register your
voice so that Bixby will respond to your voice.
1 Open the Bixby app and tap        → Voice wake-up.
2   Tap the switch to turn it on.
3   Select a wake-up phrase you want under Wake-up phrase.
4   Tap the Respond to my voice switch to turn it on.
5   Follow the on-screen instructions to complete the setup.
    Now you can say the wake-up phrase and start a conversation.




                                            88
Apps and features


Communicating by typing text
If your voice is not recognised because of noisy environments or if you are in a situation
where speaking is difficult, you can communicate with Bixby through text.
Open the Bixby app, tap      , and then type what you want.
During the communication, Bixby also will answer you through text instead of voice
feedback.



Bixby Vision
Introduction
Bixby Vision is a service that provides various features based on image recognition. You
can use Bixby Vision to search for information by recognising objects. Use a variety of
useful Bixby Vision features.
      •   This feature may not be available or you might not get correct search results
          depending on the image size, format, or resolution.
      •   Samsung is not responsible for the product information provided by Bixby Vision.


Launching Bixby Vision
Launch Bixby Vision using one of these methods.
 •   In the Camera app, tap MORE on the shooting modes list and tap BIXBY VISION.
 •   In the Gallery app, select an image and tap     .
 •   In the Samsung Internet app, touch and hold an image and tap Search with Bixby
     Vision.
 •   If you added the Bixby Vision app icon to the Apps screen, open the Bixby Vision app.




                                             89
Apps and features


Using Bixby Vision
1 Launch Bixby Vision.
2 Select a feature you want to use.
   •   TRANSLATE: Recognise text from documents or images and translate it.
   •   TEXT: Recognise text from documents or images and extract it.
   •   DISCOVER: Search for images similar to the recognised object online and related
       information.
       The available features and search results may vary depending on the region or
       carrier.



Multi window
(Using multiple apps at once)

Introduction
Run two apps at the same time in split screen view. You can also run multiple apps at
the same time in the pop-up view.




                       Split screen view              Pop-up view

       Some apps may not support this feature.




                                           90
Apps and features


Split screen view
1 Tap the Recents button to open the list of recently used apps.
2 Swipe to the left or right, tap an app’s icon, and then tap Open in split screen view.
   Alternatively, drag an app to where Drop here to open appears.
3 On the apps list, select another app to open.

Opening apps from the Edge panel
1 While using an app, drag the Edge panel handle towards the centre of the screen.
2 Drag an app to the left, and then drop it where Drop here to open appears.
   The selected app will open in the split screen view.
     You can set to open an app in the split screen view by tapping it once. Tap →
       and tap Tap under Open in split screen view. If you tap the Show recent apps
     switch to turn it on, you can open the recently used apps in the split screen view
     from the Edge panel.

Adding app pairs
Add frequently used apps as an app pair to open them together in the split screen view
with a single tap.
1 In the split screen view, tap the circles between the app windows.
2 Tap .
3 Select a location to add the app pair.
   The apps you are using in the split screen view will be saved to the location you select
   as an app pair.

Adjusting the window size
Drag the circles between the app windows to adjust the size of the windows.
When you drag the circles between the app windows to the edge of the screen, the
window will be maximised.




                                            91
Apps and features


Pop-up view
1 Tap the Recents button to open the list of recently used apps.
2 Swipe to the left or right, tap an app’s icon, and then tap Open in pop-up view.
   Alternatively, drag an app to where Drop here for pop-up view appears.
   The app screen will appear in the pop-up view.
   If you tap the Home button while using a pop-up window, the window will be
   minimised and displayed as an app icon. To use the pop-up window again, tap the app
   icon.

Opening apps from the Edge panel
1 Drag the Edge panel handle towards the centre of the screen.
2 Drag an app to the left, and then drop it where Drop here for pop-up view appears.
   The selected app will open in the pop-up view.

Moving pop-up windows
To move a pop-up window, tap the window’s toolbar and drag it to a new location.




                                           92
Apps and features



Samsung Internet
Browse the internet to search for information and bookmark your favourite webpages to
access them conveniently.
1 Open the Samsung Internet app.
2 Enter the web address or a keyword, and then tap Go.
To access the toolbars, swipe downwards slightly on the screen.
To switch between tabs, tap        or swipe to the left or right on the address field.

   Bookmark the current webpage.                              Refresh the current webpage.




                                                              Access your bookmarks.


             Open the homepage.                               Manage tabs. / Use Secret mode.


            Move between pages.                               More options



Using Secret mode
If you set a password for Secret mode, you can prevent others from accessing your search
history, browsing history, bookmarks, and saved pages.
1 Tap     → Turn on Secret mode.
2 Tap the Lock Secret mode switch to turn it on, tap Start, and then set a password for
  Secret mode.
  In Secret mode, the device will change the colour of the toolbars. To turn off Secret
  mode, tap    → Turn off Secret mode.
     In Secret mode, you cannot use some features, such as screen capture.




                                               93
Apps and features



Samsung Wallet
Use various convenient features in Samsung Wallet. You can make a payment, verify your
identity through your biometric data, check tickets or boarding passes, and more.
Open the Samsung Wallet app and select a feature you want.
     •   This app may not be available depending on the region.
     •   Some features may not be available depending on the region.

Making payments
Register cards to Samsung Pay to make both online and offline payments. Refer to
Samsung Pay for more information.

Verifying identity
Register your biometric data to Samsung Pass and verify your identity when using
services which require your login or personal information. Refer to Samsung Pass for
more information.

Using tickets
Add boarding passes and tickets for movies, sports, and more, to access and use them in
one place.

Using a digital key
Register your vehicle’s digital key to your phone so you can unlock or lock the vehicle’s
door and start the vehicle.
Start registering a digital key by installing your vehicle’s digital key app or using the
guide message, such as an email or text message, sent by your vehicle’s manufacturer.
Then, follow the on-screen instructions on your vehicle’s navigation screen and your
phone’s Samsung Wallet screen to complete the registration.
     •   This feature may not be available depending on the region or model.
     •   To use this feature, the vehicle must support the digital key feature. Check with
         your vehicle’s manufacturer for digital key support.
     •   The registered digital key is only saved to your phone and, if the phone is
         replaced, the digital key must be registered again.
     •   Some features may not be available depending on the vehicle. Check with your
         vehicle’s manufacturer for more information.



                                             94
Apps and features


Using a digital key with the NFC feature
Touch the NFC antenna area of the phone with the digital key registered to the vehicle’s
door. The door will unlock or lock.
After you place the phone on the vehicle’s wireless charging pad and the digital key is
authenticated, you can start the vehicle using the start button.
     •   To use this feature, the phone and vehicle must support the NFC feature.
     •   To turn on the NFC feature on the phone, open Settings, tap Connections → NFC
         and contactless payments, and then tap the switch to turn it on.
     •   To find out the location of the wireless charging pad and which of your vehicle’s
         doors support NFC, refer to your vehicle’s user manual.

Using a digital key with ultra-wideband (UWB) (Galaxy S23 Ultra, Galaxy S23+)
The vehicle’s door will unlock when you get close to the vehicle with your phone, and will
lock when you move away.
After the digital key is authenticated when you get inside the vehicle, you can start the
vehicle using the start button.
     •   To use this feature, the phone and vehicle must support both the Bluetooth and
         UWB features. Open Settings, tap Connections, and then tap the Bluetooth
         switch and the Ultra-wideband (UWB) switch to turn them on.
     •   If the vehicle supports both the NFC and UWB features, you can choose the
         method you want. Refer to your vehicle’s user manual for more information.
     •   The UWB feature may not be available depending on the region.
     •   The door unlock and lock methods may differ depending on the vehicle. Check
         with your vehicle’s manufacturer for more information.
     •   Using this feature will increase battery consumption.

Deleting the digital key
You can delete the registered digital key from your phone.
Open the Samsung Wallet app, tap the registered digital key, and then tap → Delete.




                                             95
Apps and features



Samsung Pay
Introduction
Register cards to Samsung Pay to make both online and offline payments.
You can check out more information, such as cards that support this feature at
www.samsung.com/samsung-pay.
     •   To make payments with Samsung Pay, the device may be required a connection
         to a Wi-Fi or mobile network depending on the region.
     •   This feature may not be available depending on the carrier or model.
     •   The procedures for the initial setup and card registration may vary depending on
         the carrier or model.
     •   If there is no Samsung Pay app on your device, you can access Samsung Pay from
         the Samsung Wallet app.


Setting up Samsung Pay
When running this app for the first time or restart it after performing a data reset, follow
the on-screen instructions to complete the initial setup.
1 Open the Samsung Pay app.
2 Sign in to your Samsung account and read and agree to the terms and conditions.
3 Register your fingerprint and a PIN to use when making payments.
   This PIN will be used to verify various actions in Samsung Pay, such as making
   payments and unlocking the app.


Registering cards
Open the Samsung Pay app and follow the on-screen instructions to complete your card
registration.




                                            96
Apps and features


Making payments
1 Drag a card image at the bottom of the screen upwards. Alternatively, open the
   Samsung Pay app. Then, on the cards list, swipe to the left or right and select a card
   to use.




2 Scan your fingerprint or enter the payment PIN you set.
3 Touch the back of your device to the card reader.
   When the card reader recognises the card information, the payment will be
   processed.
     •   Payments may not be processed depending on your network connection.
     •   The verification method for payments may vary depending on the card readers.

Cancelling payments
You can cancel payments by visiting the place where you made them.
On the cards list, swipe to the left or right to select the card you used. Follow the
on-screen instructions to complete payment cancellation.




                                             97
Apps and features



Samsung Health
Introduction
Samsung Health helps you manage your wellness and fitness. Set fitness goals, check
your progress, and keep track of your overall wellness and fitness. You can also compare
your step count records with other Samsung Health users and check out health tips.
Visit www.samsung.com/samsung-health for more information.


Using Samsung Health
Open the Samsung Health app. When running this app for the first time or restarting it
after performing a data reset, follow the on-screen instructions to complete the setup.
To edit items on the Samsung Health home screen, tap → Edit home.




                                                            Home cards




    Monitor your health and fitness.                        Manage your profile and check
                                                            your health and fitness history.
  Compare your step count records
  with other Samsung Health users
      or compete with your friends.                         Check out health tips.

     •   Some features may not be available depending on the region.
     •   If you use the steps card while travelling by car or train, vibration may affect your
         step count.




                                              98
Apps and features



Samsung Notes
Introduction
Create notes by entering text from the keyboard or by handwriting or drawing on the
screen. You can also insert images or voice recordings into your notes.
     Some features may not be available depending on the model.


Creating notes
1 Open the Samsung Notes app, tap       , and then create a note.
  You can change the input method by tapping       or    .


                                                         Insert files.
                    Enter a title.
                                                         Reading mode

2 When you are finished composing the note, tap the Back button to save it.
  If you want to save the note in another file format, tap → Save as file.

Deleting notes
Touch and hold a note to delete and tap Delete.




                                           99
Apps and features


Composing notes with handwriting
On the note composer screen, tap            to draw or write in your own handwriting.
You can enter your handwriting in a larger size if you magnify the screen by spreading
two fingers on it.




       Pen         Eraser           Undo           S Pen           Convert      Easy            Zoom
                                                  to text        handwriting   writing           lock
                                                                   to text.     pad
          Highlighter    Select            Redo        Straighten        Change      Auto-fix
                        and edit.                                        styles.     shapes

       If finger input does not work on a model that supports the S Pen, tap → Finger
       drawing on.

Using the eraser
When you want to erase handwriting from a note, tap and select an area to erase.
Alternatively, select an area while pressing and holding the S Pen button.
To change the eraser type, tap         once more.
 •   Stroke eraser: Erase the line you select.
 •   Area eraser: Erase only the area you select. You can adjust the size of the eraser by
     dragging the size adjustment bar.
      Even with a smaller eraser, you may still not be able to precisely erase the intended
      part.

Editing handwritten notes
Edit handwritten notes using various editing options, such as cutting, moving, or
resizing.
1 When there is handwriting on the note, tap                 .
     To change the shape of the selection, tap              once more.




                                                   100
Apps and features


2 Tap or draw a line around the input to select.
   •   To move the input to another location, select the input, and then drag it to a new
       location.
   •   To change the size of the selection, tap the input and drag a corner of the frame
       that appears.




3 Edit the input using the available options.

Converting handwriting to text
Tap and write on the screen with the S Pen. The handwriting will be replaced with text
right away.
After writing on the screen, tap   . Options will appear in the preview window. If you
drag      or , you can select the handwriting you want. To replace the handwriting with
the text, tap Convert.




Straightening content horizontally
You can horizontally straighten your handwriting and drawings.
After writing or drawing on the screen, tap     .




                                              101
Apps and features


Changing styles
You can change the style of your handwriting and drawings.
After writing or drawing on the screen, tap twice and select a colour or line thickness
you want. Then, point the S Pen toward where you want to apply the style. When the
icon appears, tap where you want to change the style.




Using the easy writing pad
On the note composer screen, tap    . The input field will be magnified and appear as the
easy writing pad.




                                                                            Easy writing
                                                                            pad




Automatically fixing shapes
Tap    and draw a shape. The shape will be fixed.


Recording voice to notes
Make a recording of your voice while creating a note, and then the content will be
synchronised with the recording.
On the note composer screen, tap     → Voice recording and create a note.
Select a note from the list and tap to play the recording. Then the content you created
while recording will be displayed on the screen along with the recording.




                                           102
Apps and features


Adding memos to PDF files
Open the Samsung Notes app, tap       , and then select a PDF file. You can add memos to
the PDF file.


Pinning a note to the Home screen
Pin a note to the Home screen to check it or open and edit it.
1 Open the Samsung Notes app.
2 Select a note and tap → Add to → Home screen.
   The note will be added to the Home screen.


Clipping content
You can add content, such as a webpage link or an image, to a note.
1 When there is content you want to clip while using the Samsung Internet, Messages,
   or Gallery app, open the Samsung Notes app in the split screen view or in the pop-up
   view. For more information about the split screen view or the pop-up view, refer to
   Multi window.
   Alternatively, double tap the screen while pressing and holding the S Pen button, or
   open the Air command panel and tap Create note.
   Options you can use will appear at the bottom of the note composer screen.
2 Select an option you want.




                                           103
Apps and features



Samsung Members
Samsung Members offers support services to customers, such as device problem
diagnosis, and lets users submit questions and error reports. You can also share
information with others in the Galaxy users’ community or check the latest news and
tips. Samsung Members can help you solve any problems you might encounter while
using your device.



Samsung Kids
You can restrict children’s access to certain apps, set their usage times, and configure
settings to provide a fun and safe environment for children when they use the device.
Open the notification panel, swipe downwards, and then tap        (Kids). If you cannot find
    (Kids) on the quick panel, tap    and drag the button over to add it. When starting
Samsung Kids for the first time or after performing a data reset, follow the on-screen
instructions to complete the setup.
On the Samsung Kids screen, select the app you want to use.
     Your preset screen lock method or your created PIN will be used when turning on
     the Parental controls feature or closing Samsung Kids.

Using parental controls features
You can configure the settings for Samsung Kids and check the usage history.
On the Samsung Kids screen, tap → Parental controls and enter your unlock code.

Closing Samsung Kids
To close Samsung Kids, tap the Back button or tap → Close Samsung Kids, and then
enter your unlock code.




                                            104
Apps and features



Samsung Global Goals
The Global Goals, which were established by the United Nations General Assembly in
2015, consist of goals that aim to create a sustainable society. These goals have the
power to end poverty, fight inequality, and stop climate change.
With Samsung Global Goals, learn more about the global goals and join the movement
for a better future.



Samsung TV Plus
Select the channels like you would use a TV and enjoy various video content free of
charge.
Open the Samsung TV Plus app.
     This app may not be available depending on the carrier or model.



Galaxy Shop
Access the Samsung website and check various information related to products.
Open the Galaxy Shop app.
     •   This app may not be available depending on the carrier or model.
     •   This app may be named Samsung Shop depending on the region.



Galaxy Wearable
Using the Galaxy Wearable app, you can manage your wearable devices. When you
connect your phone to the wearable device, you can customise the wearable device’s
settings and apps.
Open the Galaxy Wearable app.
Tap Start to connect your phone to the wearable device. Follow the on-screen
instructions to finish the setup. Refer to the wearable device’s user manual for more
information about how to connect and use the wearable device with your device.




                                           105
Apps and features



PENUP (Galaxy S23 Ultra)
PENUP is a social network service for sharing artwork drawn with the S Pen. Post your
artwork, check out others’ artwork, and get useful drawing tips.
Open the PENUP app.



Calendar
Manage your schedule by entering upcoming events in your planner.

Creating events
1 Open the Calendar app and tap       or double tap a date.
  If the date already has saved events or tasks in it, tap the date and tap   .
2 Enter event details and tap Save.

Syncing events with your accounts
1 Open Settings, tap Accounts and backup → Manage accounts, and then select the
  account to sync with.
2 Tap Sync account and tap the Calendar switch to turn it on.
To add accounts to sync with, open the Calendar app and tap → → Manage
calendars → . Then, select an account to sync with and sign in. When an account is
added, a blue circle is displayed next to the account name.




                                           106
Apps and features



Reminder
(Receiving notifications for to-do items)
Register to-do items as reminders and receive notifications according to the condition
you set.
     •   To receive more accurate notifications, connect to a Wi-Fi or mobile network.
     •   To use location reminders, the GPS feature must be turned on. Location
         reminders may not be available depending on the model.

Starting Reminder
Open the Calendar app and tap → Reminder. The Reminder screen will appear and
the Reminder app icon ( ) will be added to the Apps screen.

Creating reminders
1 Open the Reminder app.
2 Tap     , enter the details, and then tap Save.

Completing reminders
On the reminders list, tap     or select a reminder and tap Complete.

Restoring reminders
Restore reminders that have been completed.
1 On the reminders list, tap     → Completed.
2 Select a category and tap .
3 Select a reminder to restore and tap Restore.
   Reminders will be added to the reminders list and you will be reminded again.

Deleting reminders
To delete a reminder, select a reminder and tap Delete. To delete multiple reminders,
touch and hold a reminder, tick reminders to delete, and then tap Delete.




                                            107
Apps and features



Voice Recorder
Record or play voice recordings.
1 Open the Voice Recorder app.
2 Tap        to start recording. Speak into the microphone.
     •   Tap    to pause recording.
     •   While making a voice recording, tap BOOKMARK to insert a bookmark.
3 Tap to finish recording.
4 Enter a file name and tap Save.

Changing the recording mode
Select a mode from the top of the voice recorder screen.
 •   Standard: This is the normal recording mode.
 •   Interview: The device records sound from the top and the bottom of the device at a
     high volume while reducing the volume of sound from the sides.
 •   Speech-to-text: The device records your voice and simultaneously converts it to
     on-screen text. For best results, keep the device near your mouth and speak loudly
     and clearly in a quiet place.
          If the voice memo system language does not match the language you are
          speaking, the device will not recognise your voice. In this case, before using this
          feature, tap the current language to set the voice memo system language.




                                             108
Apps and features


Playing selected voice recordings
When you review interview recordings, you can mute or unmute certain sound sources in
the recording.
1 Tap List and select a voice recording made in interview mode.
2 To mute certain sound sources, tap      for the corresponding direction that sound is
  to be muted.
  The icon will change to     and the sound will be muted.




             Muted sound source


           Unmuted sound source




                                         109
Apps and features



My Files
(Checking and managing the files)
Access and manage various files stored in the device.
Open the My Files app.
To check for unnecessary data and free up the device’s storage, tap Analyse storage.
To search for files or folders, tap   .



Clock
Set alarms, check the current time in many cities around the world, time an event, or set
a specific duration.
Open the Clock app.



Calculator
Perform basic arithmetic or scientific calculations.
Open the Calculator app.
 •      : Check the calculation history. To clear the history, tap Clear history. To close the
     calculation history panel, tap .
 •       : Use the unit conversion tool. You can convert various values, such as area,
     length, or temperature, into other units.
 •      : Display the scientific calculator.




                                               110
Apps and features



Game Launcher
Game Launcher gathers your games downloaded from Play Store and Galaxy Store into
one place.
Open the Game Launcher app and select the game you want.
      •   If Game Launcher does not appear, open Settings, tap Advanced features, and
          then tap the Game Launcher switch to turn it on.
      •   Games downloaded from Play Store and Galaxy Store will be automatically
          shown on the Game Launcher screen. If your games are not there, tap My games
          → → Add games.
      •   Game performance may be limited to control the device’s temperature if the
          temperature rises above a certain level.

Removing a game from Game Launcher
Tap My games, touch and hold a game, and then tap Remove.

Changing the performance mode
You can change the game performance mode.
Open the Game Launcher app, tap More → Game Booster → Game optimisation, and
then select the mode you want.
 •   Performance: This focuses on giving you high performance while playing games.
     If you use this mode, your device may heat up because of increased battery
     consumption.
 •   Standard: This balances the performance and the battery usage time.
 •   Battery saver: This saves battery power while playing games.
      Battery power efficiency may vary by game.




                                           111
Apps and features



Game Booster
(Configuring your gaming environment)
You can play games in a better environment with Game Booster. You can use Game
Booster while playing games.
To open the Game Booster panel while playing games, tap      on the navigation bar. If
the navigation bar is hidden, drag upwards from the bottom of the screen to show it. If
you have set the navigation bar to use Swipe gestures, open the notification panel and
tap Tap to open Game Booster.
 •       : Lock the touch screen while the game is being played. To unlock the touch
      screen, drag the lock icon in any direction.
 •       : Hide the buttons on the navigation bar. To display the buttons, tap   on the
      navigation bar.
 •         : Capture screenshots.
 •         : Record your game sessions. To stop recording, tap   .
 •         : Configure settings for Game Booster.
 •    Priority mode: Set the device to block incoming calls and all notifications except for
      alarms to prevent your game from being disturbed.
 •    Game optimisation: Change the performance mode.
 •    Battery: Check the remaining battery usage time.
 •    Temperature / Memory: Check the device’s temperature and memory status.
      You can also set the device to automatically adjust the volume or video frame
      rate to prevent the device from overheating and to stop apps from running in the
      background when there is not enough memory.
        • You can set to open the Game Booster panel from the navigation bar while the

          navigation bar is set to Swipe gestures. On the Game Booster panel, tap    →
          Block during game and tap the Navigation gestures switch to turn it on.
       •   Available options may vary depending on the game.

Opening apps in pop-up windows while playing games
You can open apps in pop-up windows while playing a game.
Tap        and select an app from the apps list.




                                              112
Apps and features



SmartThings
Control and manage smart appliances and Internet of Things (IoT) products.
To access more information, open the SmartThings app and tap Menu → How to use.
1 Open the SmartThings app.
2 Tap Devices → Add device or .
3 Select a device and connect to it by following the on-screen instructions.
     •   Connection methods may vary depending on the type of connected devices or
         the shared content.
     •   The devices you can connect may vary depending on the region. Available
         features may differ depending on the connected device.
     •   Connected devices’ own problems or defects are not covered by the Samsung
         warranty. When problems or defects occur on the connected devices, contact the
         device’s manufacturer.



Sharing content
Share content by using various sharing options. The following actions are an example of
sharing images.
1 Open the Gallery app and select an image.
2 Tap     and select a sharing method you want.
     You may incur additional charges when sharing files through the mobile network.


Quick Share

Sharing content with nearby devices
Share content with nearby devices through Wi-Fi Direct or Bluetooth, or with some
SmartThings supported devices.
1 Open the Gallery app and select an image.
2 On the other device, open the notification panel, swipe downwards, and then tap
   (Quick Share) to turn it on. If you cannot find   (Quick Share) on the quick panel, tap
      and drag the button over to add it.



                                            113
Apps and features


3 Tap → Quick Share and select a device to transfer the image to.
4 Accept the file transfer request on the other device.
       This feature does not support sharing videos with TVs or SmartThings supported
       devices. To watch videos on TV, use the Smart View feature.

Setting who can find your phone
Set who is allowed to find and send content to your phone.
1 Open the notification panel, swipe downwards, and then tap       (Quick Share).
2 Select an option.
   •   No one: Do not allow others to find your phone.
   •   Contacts only: Only allow Samsung users in your contacts to share with your
       phone.
   •   Anyone nearby: Allow any nearby devices to share with your phone.

Sharing through Web link
Upload large files to the Samsung storage server and share them with others through
Web link.
1 Open the Gallery app and select an image.
2 Tap     → Quick Share and select an option you want under Share to any device.
   •   Copy link: Share the link copied to the clipboard.
   •   Share link using app: Share the link by selecting an app.
   •   Share using QR code: Share the link with the created QR code.




                                           114
Apps and features



Music Share
Introduction
Using the Music Share feature, you can share your Bluetooth speaker that is already
connected to your phone with another person. You can also listen to the same music on
your Galaxy Buds and another person’s Galaxy Buds.
This feature is available only on devices that support the Music Share feature.


Sharing a Bluetooth speaker
You can listen to music on your phone and your friend’s phone through your Bluetooth
speaker.
1 Make sure that your phone and your Bluetooth speaker are connected.
   Refer to Pairing with other Bluetooth devices for how to connect.
2 On your phone, open Settings, tap Connections → Bluetooth → → Advanced
   settings, and then tap the Music Share switch to turn it on.
   You can use additional features, such as setting who to share your device with, by
   tapping Music Share.
3 On your friend’s phone, select your speaker from the list of the Bluetooth devices.
4 On your phone, accept the connection request.
   Your speaker will be shared.
   When you play music through your friend’s phone, the music playing through your
   phone will be paused.




                                           115
Apps and features


Listening to music together with Galaxy Buds
You can listen to music on your phone together through your Buds and your friend’s
Buds.
This feature is supported only on the Galaxy Buds series.
1 Make sure that each phone and pair of Buds are connected.
   Refer to Pairing with other Bluetooth devices for how to connect.
2 On your friend’s phone, open Settings, tap Connections → Bluetooth → →
   Advanced settings, and then tap the Music Share switch to turn it on.
   You can use additional features, such as setting who to share your device with, by
   tapping Music Share.
3 On your phone, open the notification panel and tap Media output.
4 Tap Music Share and select your friend’s Buds from the detected devices list.
5 On your friend’s phone, accept the connection request.
   When you play music through your phone, you can listen to it together through both
   Buds.




Smart View
(Mirroring on a TV screen)
View your phone’s displayed content on a large screen by connecting your phone to a
screen mirroring-enabled TV or monitor.
1 Open the notification panel, swipe downwards, and then tap       (Smart View).
2 Select a device to mirror your phone’s screen.
     When you play a video with Smart View, the resolution may vary depending on the
     TV model.




                                           116
Apps and features



Link to Windows
(Using the device through a computer connection)
You can connect your device to a Windows PC to instantly access your device’s data, such
as pictures or messages, on the computer.
When calls or messages come in, you can receive them on the computer.
     •   It is recommended to use the latest version of Windows and the Phone Link app
         to fully use this feature.
     •   A Microsoft account is required to use this feature. When you create a Microsoft
         account, you can sign in to all Microsoft devices and services, such as Microsoft
         Office apps and Windows 10.

Connecting to a computer
1 Open Settings and tap Connected devices → Link to Windows.
2 Follow the on-screen instructions to complete the connection.
     Visit https://aka.ms/setupltw for details.


Accessing data and notifications from your device on the computer
Open the Phone Link app on the computer and select a category you want.

                                                            Apps
               Photos
                                                            Calls
            Messages

           Your device




         Notifications




     Available features and menus may vary depending on the software version or
     model.


                                            117
Apps and features



Samsung DeX
Introduction
Using Samsung DeX, you can use your phone like a computer by connecting the phone
to an external display, such as a TV or monitor. Accomplish tasks you want done on your
phone on a large screen using a keyboard and mouse. While using Samsung DeX, you
can simultaneously use your phone.


Connecting devices and starting Samsung DeX
Wired connections to external displays
You can connect your phone to an external display using an HDMI adapter (USB Type-C
to HDMI).
     Use only official Samsung DeX supported accessories that are provided by
     Samsung. Performance problems and malfunctions caused by using accessories
     that are not officially supported are not covered by the warranty.

1 Connect an HDMI adapter to your phone.
2 Connect an HDMI cable to the HDMI adapter and to a TV or monitor’s HDMI port.




                                          118
Apps and features


3 On your phone’s screen, tap Start.
  Without changing your phone’s screen, the Samsung DeX screen will appear on the
  connected TV or monitor.




                                                                  HDMI cable


                      HDMI adapter
               (USB Type-C to HDMI)


Connecting to a TV wirelessly
You can use Samsung DeX by connecting your phone to a TV wirelessly.
1 On your phone, open the notification panel, swipe downwards, and then tap       (DeX).
2 Select a TV from the detected devices list and tap Start now.
  Some TVs will only be detected when its screen mirroring mode is turned on.
3 If the connection request window appears on the TV, accept the request.
4 Follow the on-screen instructions to complete the connection.
  When they are connected, the Samsung DeX screen will appear on the TV.
     •   It is recommended to use a Samsung Smart TV manufactured after 2019.
     •   Make sure that screen mirroring is supported on the TV you want to connect to.




                                           119
Apps and features


Controlling the Samsung DeX screen
Controlling on an external display

Controlling with an external keyboard and mouse
You can use a wireless keyboard/mouse. Refer to the respective device’s manual for
more information.
     •   You can set the mouse pointer to flow from the external display to the phone’s
         screen. Open Settings, select Samsung DeX → Mouse and trackpad, and then
         select the Flow pointer to phone screen switch to turn it on.
     •   You can also use the external keyboard on the phone’s screen.

Using your phone as a touchpad
You can use your phone as a touchpad.
On your phone, tap    on the navigation bar. If you have set the navigation bar to use
Swipe gestures, open the notification panel and tap Use your phone as a touchpad.
     •   If you double tap   on the touchpad, you can check out the gestures you can
         use with the touchpad.
     •   If your phone’s case has a front cover, open the front cover to use your phone as a
         touchpad. If the front cover is closed, the touchpad may not work properly.
     •   If your phone’s screen turns off, press the Side key or double tap the screen to
         turn on the screen.




                                            120
Apps and features


Using the screen keyboard
When you enter text to send messages, create notes, or perform other tasks, a screen
keyboard will appear automatically on your phone’s screen without connecting an
external keyboard.


Using Samsung DeX
Use your phone’s features in an interface environment similar to a computer. You can
multitask by running multiple apps simultaneously. You can also check your phone’s
notifications and status.



     Favourite apps

                                                                         Samsung DeX
                                                                         home screen
             Taskbar
                                                                         Quick access
                                                                         toolbar
         Apps button
                                                                         Status bar

                                                                         Notifications

     •   The Samsung DeX screen layout may differ depending on the connected device.
     •   When starting or ending Samsung DeX, running apps may be closed.
     •   Some apps or features may not be available when using Samsung DeX.
     •   To adjust the screen settings, use the connected TV or monitor’s display settings.
     •   To change the audio output, tap the status bar, select Media output, and then
         select a device.

Using Samsung DeX and phone simultaneously
While using Samsung DeX, you can use separate apps on the external display and your
phone simultaneously.
For example, while watching a video on the connected TV or monitor, you can chat with
your friend on a messenger.
On the connected TV or monitor, open an app to run on the Samsung DeX screen. Then,
open another app on your phone.



                                            121
Apps and features


Locking the Samsung DeX screen
If you want to lock the Samsung DeX screen and your phone’s screen while using
Samsung DeX, select → Lock DeX.
      While using Samsung DeX, you cannot lock the Samsung DeX screen and your
      phone’s screen by pressing the Side key.



Google apps
Google provides entertainment, social network, and business apps. You may require a
Google account to access some apps.
To check out more app information, access each app’s help menu.
 •   Chrome: Search for information and browse webpages.
 •   Gmail: Send or receive emails through the Google Mail service.
 •   Maps: Find your location on the map, search the world map, and access location
     information for various places around you.
 •   YT Music: Enjoy various music and videos provided by YouTube Music. You can also
     access the music collections stored on your device and play them.
 •   Google TV: Purchase or rent videos, such as movies and TV programmes, from Play
     Store.
 •   Drive: Store your content on the cloud, access it from anywhere, and share it with
     others.
 •   YouTube: Watch or create videos and share them with others.
 •   Photos: Search for, manage, and edit all your pictures and videos from various
     sources in one place.
 •   Google: Search for items on the internet or your device.
 •   Meet: Make video calls or create or join video meetings.
 •   Messages: Send and receive messages on your device or computer, and share
     various content, such as images and videos.
      Some apps may not be available depending on the carrier or model.




                                            122
Settings
Introduction
Customise device settings.
On the Apps screen, tap Settings. Alternatively, open the notification panel and tap   .
To search for settings by entering keywords, tap   . You can also search for settings by
selecting a tag under Suggestions.



Samsung account
Sign in to your Samsung account and manage it.
On the Settings screen, tap Samsung account.



Connections
Options
Change settings for various connections, such as the Wi-Fi feature and Bluetooth.
On the Settings screen, tap Connections.
 •   Wi-Fi: Turn on the Wi-Fi feature to connect to a Wi-Fi network and access the
     internet or other network devices. Refer to Wi-Fi for more information.
 •   Bluetooth: Use Bluetooth to exchange data or media files with other
     Bluetooth-enabled devices. Refer to Bluetooth for more information.
 •   NFC and contactless payments: Read near field communication (NFC) tags that
     contain information about products. You can also use this feature to make payments
     and buy tickets for transportation or events after downloading the required apps.
     Refer to NFC and contactless payments for more information.




                                           123
Settings


 •   Ultra-wideband (UWB): Turn on the UWB feature.
 •   Flight mode: Set the device to turn off all wireless functions on your device. You can
     use only non-network services.
          Follow the regulations provided by the airline and the instructions of aircraft
          personnel. In cases where it is allowed to use the device, always use it in flight
          mode.
 •   SIM manager (dual SIM models): Activate your SIM or USIM cards and customise the
     SIM card settings. Refer to SIM manager (dual SIM models) for more information.
 •   Mobile networks: Configure your mobile network settings.
 •   Data usage: Keep track of your data usage amount and customise the settings for
     the limitation. Set the device to automatically disable the mobile data connection
     when the amount of mobile data you have used reaches your specified limit.
     You can turn on the data saver feature to prevent some apps running in the
     background from sending or receiving data. Refer to Data saver for more
     information.
     You can also select apps to always use the mobile data even when your device is
     connected to a Wi-Fi network. Refer to Mobile data only apps for more information.
 •   Mobile Hotspot and Tethering: Use the phone as a mobile hotspot to share the
     phone’s mobile data connection with other devices. For more information about the
     mobile hotspot, refer to Mobile Hotspot.
           You may incur additional charges when using this feature.
 •   More connection settings: Customise settings to control other features. Refer to
     More connection settings for more information.
      Some features may not be available depending on the model.




                                             124
Settings


Wi-Fi
Turn on the Wi-Fi feature to connect to a Wi-Fi network and access the internet or other
network devices.

Connecting to a Wi-Fi network
1 On the Settings screen, tap Connections → Wi-Fi and tap the switch to turn it on.
2 Select a network from the Wi-Fi networks list.
   Networks with a lock icon require a password.
     •   Once the device connects to a Wi-Fi network, the device will reconnect to that
         network each time it is available without requiring a password. To prevent the
         device from connecting to the network automatically, tap next to the network
         and tap the Auto reconnect switch to turn it off.
     •   If you cannot connect to a Wi-Fi network properly, restart your device’s Wi-Fi
         feature or the wireless router.

Checking out the Wi-Fi network quality information
Check out the Wi-Fi network quality information, such as the speed and stability.
On the Settings screen, tap Connections → Wi-Fi and tap the switch to turn it on. The
network quality information will appear under the Wi-Fi networks. If it does not appear,
tap → Intelligent Wi-Fi and tap the Show network quality info switch to turn it on.
     The quality information may not appear depending on the Wi-Fi network.


Sharing Wi-Fi network passwords
If you make a request to a person who is connected to a secured Wi-Fi network to share
its password, you can connect to the network without entering the password. This
feature is available between the devices which have contacts each other and the screen
of the other device must be turned on.
1 On the Settings screen, tap Connections → Wi-Fi and tap the switch to turn it on.
2 Select a network from the Wi-Fi networks list.
3 Tap Request password.
4 Accept the share request on the other device.
   The Wi-Fi password is entered on your device and it is connected to the network.




                                            125
Settings


Wi-Fi Direct
Wi-Fi Direct connects devices directly through a Wi-Fi network without requiring an
access point.
1 On the Settings screen, tap Connections → Wi-Fi and tap the switch to turn it on.
2 Tap → Wi-Fi Direct.
     The detected devices are listed.
     If the device you want to connect to is not in the list, request that the device turns on
     its Wi-Fi Direct feature.
3 Select a device to connect to.
     The devices will be connected when the other device accepts the Wi-Fi Direct
     connection request.
     To end the device connection, select the device to disconnect from the list.


Bluetooth
Use Bluetooth to exchange data or media files with other Bluetooth-enabled devices.

     Precautions for using Bluetooth
 •    Samsung is not responsible for the loss, interception, or misuse of data sent or
      received through Bluetooth.
 •    Always ensure that you share and receive data with devices that are trusted and
      properly secured. If there are obstacles between the devices, the operating distance
      may be reduced.
 •    Some devices, especially those that are not tested or approved by the Bluetooth SIG,
      may be incompatible with your device.
 •    Do not use the Bluetooth feature for illegal purposes (for example, pirating copies of
      files or illegally tapping communications for commercial purposes). Samsung is not
      responsible for the repercussion of illegal use of the Bluetooth feature.




                                              126
Settings


Pairing with other Bluetooth devices
1 On the Settings screen, tap Connections → Bluetooth and tap the switch to turn it
   on.
   The detected devices will be listed.
2 Select a device to pair with.
   If the device you want to pair with is not on the list, set the device to enter Bluetooth
   pairing mode. Refer to the other device’s user manuals.
     Your phone is visible to other devices while the Bluetooth settings screen is open.

3 Accept the Bluetooth connection request on your phone to confirm.
   The devices will be connected when the other device accepts the Bluetooth
   connection request.
   To unpair the devices, tap next to the device name to unpair and tap Unpair.

Sending and receiving data
Many apps support data transfer through Bluetooth. You can share data, such as
contacts or media files, with other Bluetooth devices. The following actions are an
example of sending an image to another device.
1 Open the Gallery app and select an image.
2 Tap      → Bluetooth and select a device to transfer the image to.
   If the device you want to pair with is not in the list, request that the device turns on its
   visibility option.
3 Accept the Bluetooth connection request on the other device.

NFC and contactless payments
You can use your phone to read near field communications tags (NFC) that contain
information about products. You can also use this feature to make payments and buy
tickets for transportation or events after downloading the required apps.
     The device contains a built-in NFC antenna. Handle the device carefully to avoid
     damaging the NFC antenna.




                                             127
Settings


Reading information from NFC tags
Use the NFC feature to read product information from NFC tags.
1 On the Settings screen, tap Connections and tap the NFC and contactless payments
  switch to turn it on.
2 Place the NFC antenna area on the back of your device near an NFC tag.
  The information from the tag appears.




     Ensure that the device’s screen is turned on and unlocked. Otherwise, the device
     will not read NFC tags or receive data.

Making payments with the NFC feature
Before you can use the NFC feature to make payments, you must register for the mobile
payment service. To register or get more information about the service, contact your
service provider.
1 On the Settings screen, tap Connections and tap the NFC and contactless payments
  switch to turn it on.
2 Touch the NFC antenna area on the back of your device to the NFC card reader.
To set the default payment app, open the Settings screen and tap Connections → NFC
and contactless payments → Contactless payments → Payment, and then select an
app.
     •   The payment services list may not include all available payment apps.
     •   If you update the payment app or install a new one, the payment services that
         you used before may not work properly. If that is the case, on the Settings
         screen, tap Connections → NFC and contactless payments → Contactless
         payments → Payment or Others, and then select another app instead of the
         updated or newly installed app. Or, deselect the selected app.



                                           128
Settings


Data saver
Reduce your data usage by preventing some apps running in the background from
sending or receiving data.
On the Settings screen, tap Connections → Data usage → Data saver and tap the switch
to turn it on.
When the data saver feature is turned on, the   icon will appear on the status bar.



                                                             Data saver feature is turned
                                                             on

     To select apps to use data without restriction, tap Allowed to use data while Data
     saver is on and select apps.


Mobile data only apps
Select apps to always use the mobile data even when your device is connected to a Wi-Fi
network.
For example, you can set the device to use only mobile data for apps that you want to
keep secure or streaming apps that can be disconnected. Even if you do not turn off the
Wi-Fi feature, the apps will open using the mobile data.
On the Settings screen, tap Connections → Data usage → Mobile data only apps and tap
the switches next to the apps you want.
     You may incur additional charges when using this feature.




                                          129
Settings


Mobile Hotspot
Use your phone as a mobile hotspot to share your phone’s mobile data connection with
other devices.
1 On the Settings screen, tap Connections → Mobile Hotspot and Tethering → Mobile
     Hotspot.
2 Tap the switch to turn it on.
     The    icon appears on the status bar.
     You can change the level of security and the password by tapping Configure.
3 On the other device’s screen, search for and select your phone from the Wi-Fi
     networks list.
     Alternatively, tap QR code on the mobile hotspot screen and scan the QR code with
     the other device.
       •   If the mobile hotspot is not found, on your phone, tap Configure and set Band to
           2.4 GHz, tap Advanced, and then tap the Hidden network switch to turn it off.
       •   If you turn on the Auto Hotspot feature, you can share your phone’s mobile data
           connection with other devices signed in to your Samsung account.


More connection settings
Customise settings to control other connection features.
On the Settings screen, tap Connections → More connection settings.
 •   Nearby device scanning: Set the phone to scan for nearby devices to connect to.
 •   Printing: Configure settings for printer plug-ins installed on the device. You can
     search for available printers or add one manually to print files. Refer to Printing for
     more information.
 •   VPN: Set up virtual private networks (VPNs) on your device to connect to a school or
     company’s private network.
 •   Private DNS: Set the device to use the security enhanced private DNS.
 •   Ethernet: When you connect an Ethernet adapter, you can use a wired network and
     configure network settings.




                                             130
Settings


Printing
Configure settings for printer plug-ins installed on the device. You can connect the
device to a printer through Wi-Fi or Wi-Fi Direct, and print images or documents.
     Some printers may not be compatible with the device.

Adding printer plug-ins
Add printer plug-ins for printers you want to connect the device to.
1 On the Settings screen, tap Connections → More connection settings → Printing →
   Download plugin.
2 Select a printer plug-in and install it.
3 Select the installed printer plug-in.
   The device will automatically search for printers that are connected to the same Wi-Fi
   network as your device.
4 Select a printer to add.
     To add printers manually, tap → Add printer.

Printing content
While accessing content, such as images or documents, access the options list, tap Print
→    → All printers..., and then select a printer.
     Printing methods may vary depending on the content type.




                                             131
Settings



Connected devices
Change settings for device connections.
On the Settings screen, tap Connected devices.
 •   Quick Share: Change the Quick Share settings. Refer to Quick Share for more
     information.
 •   Auto switch Buds: Set the Galaxy Buds to switch from another device to your phone
     when you make or answer a call, play media, and more. You can use this feature only
     when you signed in to the same Samsung account on the other device and you are
     wearing your Galaxy Buds.
 •   Call & text on other devices: Connect your tablet and phone to use calling and
     messaging features on the tablet with your phone number. You must register and
     sign in to the same Samsung account on the tablet and phone. Some calling and
     messaging features may not be available.
 •   Continue apps on other devices: Use your phone’s apps on other devices signed in to
     your Samsung account.
 •   Link to Windows: Instantly access data saved in your device on your computer. Refer
     to Link to Windows for more information.
 •   Multi control: Use a mouse and keyboard connected to a Samsung computer that
     supports this feature on your phone.
 •   Samsung DeX: Set the device to use like a computer. Refer to Samsung DeX for more
     information.
 •   Smart View: View your phone’s displayed content on a large screen by connecting
     your phone to a screen mirroring-enabled TV or monitor. Refer to Smart View for
     more information.
 •   Galaxy Wearable: When you connect your phone to the wearable device, you can
     customise the wearable device’s settings and apps. Refer to Galaxy Wearable for
     more information.
 •   SmartThings: Control and manage smart appliances and Internet of Things (IoT)
     products. Refer to SmartThings for more information.
 •   Android Auto: Connect your device to a vehicle and control some of your device’s
     features on the vehicle’s display.




                                           132
Settings



Modes and Routines
Introduction
Select a mode based on your current activity or location, or add your repeated usage
patterns as routines and use your device more conveniently.
On the Settings screen, tap Modes and Routines.


Using modes
Adding modes
1 On the Settings screen, tap Modes and Routines → Modes.
2 Select a mode you want or tap Add mode to add your own modes.

Running modes
Modes will run automatically when their conditions are detected. You can also run them
manually by tapping the button whenever you want.
To run modes manually, select the mode you want and tap Turn on.
To turn off a running mode, tap the mode and tap Turn off.


Using routines
Adding routines
1 On the Settings screen, tap Modes and Routines → Routines.
2 Tap      and select a routine you want or tap to add your own routines.
   If you want to set the routine’s running condition to manual, tap Start manually. This
   option will appear only when there are no running conditions set. When a pop-up
   window appears, tap Add. You can add the routine to the Home screen as a widget
   and access it directly.




                                           133
Settings


Running routines
Auto routines will run automatically when their conditions are detected. For routines
which you set the running condition as Start manually, you can run them manually by
tapping the button whenever you want.
To run routines manually, tap   next to the routine you want to run. Alternatively, tap
the routine’s widget on the Home screen.
To stop running routines, tap the routine under Running and tap Stop.



Sounds and vibration
Options
Change settings for various sounds on the device.
On the Settings screen, tap Sounds and vibration.
 •   Sound / Vibrate / Mute: Set the device to use sound mode, vibration mode, or silent
     mode.
 •   Vibrate while ringing: Set the device to vibrate and play a ringtone for incoming
     calls.
 •   Temporary mute: Set the device to use silent mode for a certain period.
 •   Ringtone: Change the call ringtone.
 •   Notification sound: Change the notification sound.
 •   System sound: Change the sound to use for certain actions, such as charging the
     device.
 •   Volume: Adjust the device’s volume level.
 •   Call vibration: Change the call vibration settings.
 •   Notification vibration: Change the notification vibration settings.
 •   System vibration: Set the device to vibrate for actions, such as controlling the touch
     screen.
 •   Vibration intensity: Adjust the force of the vibration notification.
 •   Sound quality and effects: Set the device’s sound quality and effects. Refer to Sound
     quality and effects for more information.




                                             134
Settings


 •    Separate app sound: Set the device to play media sound from a specific app
      separately on the other audio device. Refer to Separate app sound for more
      information.
       Some features may not be available depending on the model.


Sound quality and effects
Set the device’s sound quality and effects.
On the Settings screen, tap Sounds and vibration → Sound quality and effects.
 •    Dolby Atmos: Select a surround sound mode optimised for various types of audio,
      such as movies, music, and voice. With Dolby Atmos, you can experience moving
      audio sounds that flow all around you.
 •    Dolby Atmos for gaming: Experience the Dolby Atmos sound optimised for games
      while playing games.
 •    Equaliser: Select an option for a specific music genre and enjoy optimised sound.
 •    UHQ upscaler: Enhance the sound resolution of music and videos when using wired
      headphones.
 •    Adapt sound: Set the best sound for you.
       Depending on the model, you must connect headphones to use some features.


Separate app sound
Set the device to play media sound from a specific app on the connected Bluetooth
speaker or headset.
For example, you can listen to the Navigation app through your device’s speaker while
listening to playback from the Music app through the vehicle’s Bluetooth speaker.
1 On the Settings screen, tap Sounds and vibration → Separate app sound and tap the
     switch to turn it on.
2 Select an app to play media sounds separately and tap the Back button.
3 Select a device for playing the selected app’s media sound.




                                              135
Settings



Notifications
Change the notification settings.
On the Settings screen, tap Notifications.
 •   App notifications: Select the apps you want to receive notifications from.
 •   Lock screen notifications: Set how to show notifications on the locked screen.
 •   Notification pop-up style: Select a notification pop-up style and change the
     settings.
 •   Do not disturb: Set the device to mute all sounds except for allowed exceptions.
 •   Advanced settings: Configure advanced settings for notifications.



Display
Options
Change the display and the Home screen settings.
On the Settings screen, tap Display.
 •   Light / Dark: Turn dark mode on or off.
 •   Dark mode settings: Reduce eye strain by applying the dark theme when using the
     device at night or in a dark place. You can set a schedule for applying dark mode.
           The dark theme may not be applied in some apps.
 •   Brightness: Adjust the brightness of the display.
 •   Adaptive brightness: Set the device to keep track of your brightness adjustments
     and apply them automatically in similar lighting conditions.
 •   Extra brightness: Set the display to be brighter than the maximum brightness. This
     feature is available when you turn off the Adaptive brightness feature.
 •   Motion smoothness: Change the refresh rate of the screen. When a high refresh rate
     is set, the screen will scroll more smoothly. Refer to Motion smoothness for more
     information.




                                               136
Settings


 •   Eye comfort shield: Reduce eye strain by limiting the amount of blue light emitted
     by the screen. You can set a schedule for applying this feature.
 •   Screen mode: Change the screen mode to adjust the display’s colour and contrast.
     Refer to Changing the screen mode or adjusting the display colour for more
     information.
 •   Font size and style: Change the font size and style.
 •   Screen zoom: Make the items on the screen larger or smaller.
 •   Screen resolution: Change the screen resolution. Higher resolutions make the
     display more vivid, however they will consume more battery power. Some currently
     running apps may close when you change the resolution.
 •   Full screen apps: Select apps to use with the full screen aspect ratio.
 •   Camera cutout: Set the device to hide the front camera from the screen.
 •   Screen timeout: Set the length of time the device waits before turning off the
     display’s backlight.
 •   Easy mode: Switch to easy mode to display larger icons and apply a simpler layout to
     the Home screen.
 •   Edge panels: Change the settings for the Edge panel.
 •   Navigation bar: Change the navigation bar settings. Refer to Navigation bar (soft
     buttons) for more information.
 •   Accidental touch protection: Set the device to prevent the screen from detecting
     touch input when it is in a dark place, such as a pocket or bag.
 •   Touch sensitivity: Increase the touch sensitivity of the screen for use with screen
     protectors.
 •   Show charging information: Set the device to display the charging information, such
     as the remaining battery percentage when the screen is off.
 •   Screen saver: Set the device to launch a screensaver when the device is charging.
      Some features may not be available depending on the model.




                                             137
Settings


Motion smoothness
The refresh rate is the number of times the screen is refreshed every second. Use a high
refresh rate to prevent the screen from flickering when switching between screens. The
screen will scroll more smoothly. When you select a standard refresh rate, you can use
the battery longer.
1 On the Settings screen, tap Display → Motion smoothness.
2 Select a refresh rate.
     •   Adaptive: Get smoother animations and scrolling by automatically adjusting your
         screen refresh rate into a higher one.
     •   Standard: Use a standard refresh rate in normal situations to conserve battery
         power.

Changing the screen mode or adjusting the display colour
Change the screen mode or adjust the display colour to your preference.

Changing the screen mode
On the Settings screen, tap Display → Screen mode and select a mode you want.
 •   Vivid: This optimises the colour range, saturation, and sharpness of your display. You
     can also adjust the display colour balance by colour value.
 •   Natural: This adjusts the screen to a natural tone.
      • You can adjust the display colour only in Vivid mode.

         •   Vivid mode may not be compatible with third-party apps.

Optimising the full screen colour balance
Optimise the display colour by adjusting the colour tones to your preference.
On the Settings screen, tap Display → Screen mode → Vivid and adjust the colour
adjustment bar under White balance.
When you drag the colour adjustment bar towards Cool, the blue colour tone will
increase. When you drag the bar towards Warm, the red colour tone will increase.




                                              138
Settings


Adjusting the screen tone by colour value
Increase or lower certain colour tones by adjusting the Red, Green, or Blue value
individually.
1 On the Settings screen, tap Display → Screen mode → Vivid.
2 Tap Advanced settings.
3 Adjust the R (Red), G (Green), or B (Blue) colour bar to your preference.
   The screen tone will be adjusted.



Wallpaper and style
Change the wallpaper settings for the Home screen and the locked screen.
On the Settings screen, tap Wallpaper and style.



Themes
Apply various themes to the device to change the visual elements of the Home screen,
locked screen, and icons.
On the Settings screen, tap Themes.



Home screen
Configure settings for the Home screen, such as the screen layout.
On the Settings screen, tap Home screen.




                                           139
Settings



Lock screen
Options
Change the settings for the locked screen.
On the Settings screen, tap Lock screen.
 •   Screen lock type: Change the screen lock method.
 •   Smart Lock: Set the device to unlock itself when trusted locations or devices are
     detected. Refer to Smart Lock for more information.
 •   Secure lock settings: Change screen lock settings for the selected lock method.
 •   Lock screen: Change the settings of the items displayed on the locked screen and
     the wallpaper for the locked screen.
 •   Widgets: Change the settings of the items displayed when you tap the clock on the
     locked screen.
 •   Touch and hold to edit: Set the device to display the editing options when you touch
     and hold the locked screen.
 •   Always On Display: Set the device to display information while the screen is turned
     off. Refer to Always On Display for more information.
 •   Roaming clock: Change the clock to show both the local and home time zones on
     the locked screen when roaming.
 •   About Lock screen: Check out the Lock screen version and legal information.
      • Some features may not be available depending on the carrier or model.

      •   The available options may vary depending on the screen lock method selected.


Smart Lock
You can set the device to unlock itself and remain unlocked when trusted locations or
devices are detected.
For example, if you have set your home as a trusted location, when you get home your
device will detect the location and automatically unlock itself.
On the Settings screen, tap Lock screen → Smart Lock and follow the on-screen
instructions to complete the setup.
      •   This feature will be available to use after you set a screen lock method.
      •   If you do not use your device for four hours or when you turn on the device, you
          must unlock the screen using the pattern, PIN, or password you set.


                                             140
Settings


Always On Display
(Displaying information when the screen is turned off)
You can check out information, such as the clock or calendar, or control music playback
on the screen when it is turned off.
You can also check notifications for new messages or missed calls.
The Always On Display is set to appear only when you tap the screen. To change
the settings to make it appear continuously, during a set time, or when receiving
notifications, on the Settings screen, tap Lock screen → Always On Display, and then
select a mode you want.
     The brightness of the Always On Display may change automatically depending on
     the lighting conditions.

Opening notifications on the Always On Display
When you receive message, missed call, or app notifications, notification icons will
appear on the Always On Display. Double tap a notification icon to check its notification.




     If the screen is locked, you must unlock it to check notifications.


Turning off the Always On Display feature
Open the notification panel, swipe downwards, and then tap     (Always On Display) to
turn it off. If you cannot find (Always On Display) on the quick panel, tap  and drag
the button over to add it.
Alternatively, on the Settings screen, tap Lock screen, and then tap the Always On
Display switch to turn it off.




                                            141
Settings



Security and privacy
Options
Check the device’s security and privacy status and change the settings.
On the Settings screen, tap Security and privacy.
 •   Lock screen: Change the settings for the locked screen.
 •   Accounts: Change the settings for your accounts.
 •   Find My Mobile: Turn the Find My Mobile feature on or off. Access
     smartthingsfind.samsung.com to track and control your lost or stolen phone. You
     can also check the location of the wearable devices connected to this phone.
 •   App security: Scan apps and keep your device safe from malicious software.
 •   Updates: Check the version of your device’s software and check for updates.
 •   Privacy: Change the settings for privacy.
 •   Biometrics: Change the settings for biometric data. Refer to Face recognition and
     Fingerprint recognition for more information.
 •   Samsung Pass: Verify your identity through your biometric data. Refer to Samsung
     Pass for more information.
 •   Secure Folder: Create a secure folder to protect your private content and apps from
     others. Refer to Secure Folder for more information.
 •   Secure Wi-Fi: Set the device to protect your data while using unsecured Wi-Fi
     networks. Refer to Secure Wi-Fi for more information.
 •   Private Share: Share files with others using blockchain technology.
 •   Samsung Blockchain Keystore: Manage your blockchain private key safely.
 •   Install unknown apps: Set the device to allow the installation of apps from unknown
     sources.
 •   Other security settings: Configure additional security settings.
      Some features may not be available depending on the carrier or model.




                                            142
Settings


Face recognition
You can set the device to unlock the screen by recognising your face.
      •   If you use your face as a screen lock method, your face cannot be used to unlock
          the screen for the first time after turning on the device. To use the device,
          you must unlock the screen using the pattern, PIN, or password you set when
          registering the face. Be careful not to forget your pattern, PIN, or password.
      •   If you change the screen lock method to Swipe or None, which are not secure, all
          of your biometric data will be deleted.

     Precautions for using face recognition
Before using the face recognition to unlock your device, keep the following precautions
in mind.
 •   Your device could be unlocked by someone or something that looks like your image.
 •   Face recognition is less secure than Pattern, PIN, or Password.

For better face recognition
Consider the following when using face recognition:
 •   Consider the conditions when registering, such as wearing glasses, hats, masks,
     beards, or heavy makeup
 •   Ensure that you are in a well-lit area and that the camera lens is clean when
     registering
 •   Ensure your image is not blurry for better match results




                                            143
Settings


Registering your face
For better face registration, register your face indoors and out of direct sunlight.
1 On the Settings screen, tap Security and privacy → Biometrics → Face recognition.
2 Read the on-screen instructions and tap Continue.
3 Set a screen lock method.
4 Position your face inside the frame on the screen.
   The camera will scan your face.
     •   If unlocking the screen with your face is not working properly, tap Remove face
         data to remove your registered face and register your face again.
     •   To enhance the face recognition, tap Add alternative appearance to enhance
         recognition and add an alternate appearance.

Unlocking the screen with your face
You can unlock the screen with your face instead of using a pattern, PIN, or password.
1 On the Settings screen, tap Security and privacy → Biometrics → Face recognition.
2 Unlock the screen using the preset screen lock method.
3 Tap the Face unlock switch to turn it on.
4 On the locked screen, look at the screen.
   When your face is recognised, you can unlock the screen without using any additional
   screen lock method. If your face is not recognised, use the preset screen lock method.

Deleting the registered face data
You can delete face data that you have registered.
1 On the Settings screen, tap Security and privacy → Biometrics → Face recognition.
2 Unlock the screen using the preset screen lock method.
3 Tap Remove face data → Remove.
   Once the registered face is deleted, all the related features will also be turned off.




                                            144
Settings


Fingerprint recognition
In order for fingerprint recognition to function, your fingerprint information needs to be
registered and stored in your device.
      •   This feature may not be available depending on the carrier or model.
      •   Fingerprint recognition uses the unique characteristics of each fingerprint to
          enhance the security of your device. The likelihood of the fingerprint sensor
          confusing two different fingerprints is very low. However, in rare cases where
          separate fingerprints are very similar the sensor may recognise them as
          identical.
      •   Thick protective film can affect performance. If you use a screen protector, check
          to make sure it’s labeled as compatible with the on-screen fingerprint sensor.
          (such as screen protectors sold by Samsung)
      •   If you use your fingerprint as a screen lock method, your fingerprint cannot be
          used to unlock the screen for the first time after turning on the device. To use
          the device, you must unlock the screen using the pattern, PIN, or password you
          set when registering the fingerprint. Be careful not to forget your pattern, PIN, or
          password.
      •   If your fingerprint is not recognised, unlock the device using the pattern, PIN,
          or password you set when registering the fingerprint, and then re-register your
          fingerprints. If your pattern, PIN, or password is forgotten, you will not be able to
          use the device if you do not reset it. Samsung is not responsible for any data loss
          or inconvenience caused by forgotten unlock codes.
      •   If you change the screen lock method to Swipe or None, which are not secure, all
          of your biometric data will be deleted.

For better fingerprint recognition
When you scan your fingerprints on the device, be aware of the following conditions that
may affect the feature’s performance:
 •   The device may not recognise fingerprints that are affected by wrinkles or scars.
 •   The device may not recognise fingerprints from small or thin fingers.
 •   To improve recognition performance, register the fingerprints of the fingers used
     most often to perform tasks on the device.




                                              145
Settings


 •    Your device has a built-in fingerprint recognition sensor at the bottom centre of
      the screen. Ensure that the screen protector or the touch screen on the fingerprint
      recognition sensor area is not scratched or damaged by objects, such as coins, keys,
      pens, and necklaces.
 •    Ensure that the fingerprint recognition sensor area at the bottom centre of the
      screen and your fingers are clean and dry.
 •    If you bend your finger or use a fingertip, the device may not recognise your
      fingerprints. Press the screen so that your fingertip spreads over the wide surface of
      the fingerprint recognition area.

Registering fingerprints
1 On the Settings screen, tap Security and privacy → Biometrics → Fingerprints.
2 Read the on-screen instructions and tap Continue.
3 Set a screen lock method.
4 Tap Register and place your finger on the fingerprint recognition sensor. After the
     device detects your finger, lift it up and place it on the fingerprint recognition sensor
     again.
     Repeat this action until the fingerprint is registered.




5 When you are finished registering your fingerprints, tap Done.
     You can check whether your fingerprint is registered by tapping Check added
     fingerprints.




                                              146
Settings


Unlocking the screen with your fingerprints
You can unlock the screen with your fingerprint instead of using a pattern, PIN, or
password.
1 On the Settings screen, tap Security and privacy → Biometrics → Fingerprints.
2 Unlock the screen using the preset screen lock method.
3 Tap the Fingerprint unlock switch to turn it on.
4 On the locked screen, place your finger on the fingerprint recognition sensor and scan
   your fingerprint.

Changing the fingerprint recognition icon setting
Set the device to show or hide the fingerprint recognition icon when you tap the screen
while the screen is turned off.
1 On the Settings screen, tap Security and privacy → Biometrics → Fingerprints.
2 Unlock the screen using the preset screen lock method.
3 Tap Show icon when screen is off and select an option.

Deleting registered fingerprints
You can delete registered fingerprints.
1 On the Settings screen, tap Security and privacy → Biometrics → Fingerprints.
2 Unlock the screen using the preset screen lock method.
3 Select a fingerprint to delete and tap Remove.




                                           147
Settings


Samsung Pass
Register your biometric data to Samsung Pass and verify your identity when using
services which require your login or personal information.
     •   The website sign-in feature is only available for websites that you access through
         the Samsung Internet app. Some websites may not support this feature.
     •   Registered biometric data is only saved to your device and is not synced with
         other devices or servers.

Registering Samsung Pass
Before using Samsung Pass, register your biometric data to Samsung Pass.
On the Settings screen, tap Security and privacy → Samsung Pass. Follow the on-screen
instructions to complete the setup.

Verifying the Samsung account password
You can use your registered biometric data to verify your identity instead of entering
your Samsung account password when, for example, you purchase content from Galaxy
Store.
On the Samsung Pass main screen, tap → Settings → Account and syncing, and then
tap the Verify with Samsung Pass switch to turn it on.

Using Samsung Pass to sign in to websites
You can use Samsung Pass to sign in to websites that support ID and password autofill.
1 On the sign-in page of the website, enter your ID and password, and then tap the
  website’s sign-in button.
2 When a pop-up window asking whether you want to save the sign-in information
  appears, tick Sign in with Samsung Pass and tap Remember.




                                            148
Settings


Using Samsung Pass to sign in to apps
You can use Samsung Pass to sign in to apps that support ID and password autofill.
1 On the sign-in page of the app, enter your ID and password, and then tap the app’s
  sign-in button.
2 When a pop-up window asking whether you want to save the sign-in information
  appears, tap Save.

Managing sign-in information
Check out the list of websites and apps you have set to use Samsung Pass and manage
your sign-in information.
1 On the Samsung Pass main screen, tap Apps/websites and select a website or app
  from the list.
2 Tap Edit and modify your ID, password, and the website’s or app’s name.
  To delete your sign-in information, tap Delete.

Using Samsung Pass with websites and apps
When using websites or apps that support Samsung Pass, you can sign in with Samsung
Pass.
To check out the list of websites and apps that support Samsung Pass, on the Samsung
Pass main screen, tap → Settings → Partners. If there are no websites or apps that
support Samsung Pass, Partners will not appear.
     •   Available websites and apps may vary depending on the service provider or
         model.
     •   Samsung is not responsible for any loss or inconvenience caused by signing in to
         websites or apps through Samsung Pass.




                                           149
Settings


Entering your personal information automatically
You can use Samsung Pass to enter your personal information, such as your address or
payment card information, on apps that support autofill.
1 On the Samsung Pass main screen, select an option under Private info.
2 Enter the information and tap Save.
   You can now use the biometric data you registered to Samsung Pass when entering
   the personal information automatically on supported apps.

Deleting your Samsung Pass data
You can delete your biometric data, sign-in information, and app data registered to
Samsung Pass.
On the Samsung Pass main screen, tap → Settings → See all devices using Samsung
Pass → → Leave Samsung Pass.
     •   Your Samsung account will remain active.
     •   The Samsung Pass data on other devices signed in to your Samsung account will
         also be deleted.


Secure Folder
Secure Folder protects your private content and apps, such as pictures and contacts,
from being accessed by others. You can keep your private content and apps secure even
when the device is unlocked.
     Secure Folder is a separate, secured storage area. The data in Secure Folder cannot
     be transferred to other devices through unapproved sharing methods, such as
     USB or Wi-Fi Direct. Attempting to customise the operating system or modifying
     software will cause Secure Folder to be automatically locked and inaccessible.
     Before saving data in Secure Folder, make sure to back up a copy of the data in
     another secure location.




                                          150
Settings


Setting up Secure Folder
1 Open Settings and tap Security and privacy → Secure Folder.
2 Follow the on-screen instructions to complete the setup.
   When a pop-up window asking whether you want to reset the Secure Folder lock type
   with your Samsung account appears, tap Activate. If you have forgotten the lock type,
   you can reset it using your Samsung account. If you do not turn on this feature, you
   cannot reset the lock type when you have forgotten it.
   When the setup is complete, the Secure Folder screen will appear and the Secure
   Folder app icon ( ) will be added to the Apps screen.
     •   When the Secure Folder app is locked, you must unlock it using your preset lock
         method.
     •   To change the name or icon of Secure Folder, tap → Customise.

Setting an auto lock condition for Secure Folder
1 Open the Secure Folder app and tap → Settings → Auto lock Secure Folder.
2 Select a lock option.
     To manually lock your Secure Folder, tap → Lock and exit.

Moving content to Secure Folder
Move content, such as pictures and videos, to Secure Folder. The following actions are an
example of moving an image from the default storage to Secure Folder.
1 Open the Secure Folder app and tap → Add files.
2 Tap Images, tick images to move, and then tap Done.
3 Tap Move.
   The selected items will be deleted from the original folder and moved to Secure
   Folder. To copy items, tap Copy.
     The method for moving content may vary depending on the content type.




                                           151
Settings


Moving content from Secure Folder
Move content from Secure Folder to the corresponding app in the default storage. The
following actions are an example of moving an image from Secure Folder to the default
storage.
1 Open the Secure Folder app and tap Gallery.
2 Select an image and tap → Move out of Secure Folder.
  The selected items will be moved to Gallery in the default storage.

Adding apps
Add an app to use in Secure Folder.
1 Open the Secure Folder app and tap      .
2 Tick one or more apps installed on the device and tap Add.
Removing apps from Secure Folder
Touch and hold an app to delete, and tap Uninstall.

Adding accounts
Add your Samsung and Google accounts, or other accounts, to sync with the apps in
Secure Folder.
1 Open the Secure Folder app and tap → Settings → Manage accounts → Add
  account.
2 Select an account service.
3 Follow the on-screen instructions to complete the account setup.




                                              152
Settings


Hiding Secure Folder
You can hide the Secure Folder shortcut from the Apps screen.
Open the Secure Folder app, tap → Settings, and then tap the Add Secure Folder to
Apps screen switch to turn it off.
Alternatively, open the notification panel, swipe downwards, and then tap      (Secure
Folder) to turn off the feature. If you cannot find  (Secure Folder) on the quick panel,
tap    and drag the button over to add it.
If you want to show the Secure Folder again, open Settings, tap Security and privacy →
Secure Folder, and then tap the Add Secure Folder to Apps screen switch to turn it on.

Uninstalling Secure Folder
You can uninstall Secure Folder, including the content and apps in it.
Open the Secure Folder app and tap → Settings → More settings → Uninstall.
To back up content before uninstalling Secure Folder, tick Move media files out of
Secure Folder and tap Uninstall. To access data backed up from Secure Folder, open the
My Files app and tap Internal storage → Download → Secure Folder.
     Notes saved in Samsung Notes will not be backed up.


Secure Wi-Fi
Secure Wi-Fi is a service that secures your Wi-Fi network connection. It encrypts data
using Wi-Fi networks and disables tracking apps and websites so that you can use Wi-Fi
networks safely. For example, when using an unsecure Wi-Fi network in public places,
such as cafes or airports, Secure Wi-Fi is automatically turned on so that no one can hack
your login information or monitor your activity in apps and websites.
On the Settings screen, tap Security and privacy → Secure Wi-Fi and follow the
on-screen instructions to complete the setup.
When Secure Wi-Fi is turned on, the    icon will appear on the status bar.
     •   Using this feature may result in a slower Wi-Fi network speed.
     •   This feature may not be available depending on the Wi-Fi network, carrier, or
         model.




                                           153
Settings


Selecting apps to protect using Secure Wi-Fi
Select apps to protect using Secure Wi-Fi so that you can safely protect data, such as
your password or your activity in apps, from being accessed by others.
On the Settings screen, tap Security and privacy → Secure Wi-Fi → → Settings →
Protected apps and tap the switches next to the apps you want to protect using Secure
Wi-Fi.
      Some apps may not support this feature.


Purchasing protection plan
You are provided with a free protection plan for Wi-Fi networks every month. You can
also purchase paid protection plans and have unlimited bandwidth protection for a
limited time.
1 On the Settings screen, tap Security and privacy → Secure Wi-Fi.
2 Tap Protection plan → Upgrade and select the plan you want.
      For certain protection plans, you can transfer the protection plan to another device
      signed in to your Samsung account.
3 Follow the on-screen instructions to complete the purchase.


Location
Change settings for location information permissions.
On the Settings screen, tap Location.
 •   App permissions: Check the list of apps that have permission to access the device’s
     location and edit the permission settings.
 •   Location services: Set the device to use the Wi-Fi or Bluetooth feature to increase
     the accuracy of your location information, even when the features are turned off. You
     can also check the location services your device is using.
 •   Recent access: Check which apps request your current location information.




                                           154
Settings



Safety and emergency
Manage your medical information and emergency contacts. You can also change
settings for emergency features, such as wireless emergency alerts.
On the Settings screen, tap Safety and emergency.
 •   Medical info: Enter your medical information.
 •   Emergency contacts: Add your emergency contacts.
 •   Emergency SOS: Set the device to make an emergency call to the preset number
     when you press the Side key five times.
 •   Emergency sharing: Set the device to send information, such as your location or your
     device’s lower battery notifications, to your emergency contacts for a certain period
     of time.
 •   Earthquake alerts: Turn on the earthquake alert feature.
 •   Silence notifications while driving: Turn on the Do Not Disturb feature
     automatically while driving.
 •   Emergency Location Service: Turn on the Emergency Location Service (ELS) feature.
 •   Wireless emergency alerts: Change the settings for wireless emergency alerts.
      Some features may not be available depending on the region or the model.



Accounts and backup
Options
Sync, back up, or restore your device’s data using Samsung Cloud. You can also sign in to
accounts, such as your Samsung account or Google account, or transfer data to or from
other devices through Smart Switch.
On the Settings screen, tap Accounts and backup.
 •   Manage accounts: Add your Samsung and Google accounts, or other accounts, to
     sync with.
 •   Samsung Cloud: Back up your data and settings, and restore the previous device’s
     data and settings even when you do not have it. Refer to Samsung Cloud for more
     information.




                                           155
Settings


 •   Google Drive: Keep your personal information, app data, and settings safe on your
     device. You can back up your sensitive information. You must sign in to your Google
     account to back up data.
 •   Smart Switch: Open Smart Switch and transfer data from your previous device. Refer
     to Transferring data from your previous device (Smart Switch) for more information.
       Regularly back up your data to a safe location, such as Samsung Cloud or a
       computer, so that you can restore it if the data is damaged or lost because of an
       unintended factory data reset.


Samsung Cloud
Back up your device’s data to Samsung Cloud and restore it later.

Backing up data
You can back up your device’s data to Samsung Cloud.
1 On the Settings screen, tap Accounts and backup and tap Back up data under
     Samsung Cloud.
2 Tap the switches next to the items you want to back up and tap Back up now.
3 Tap Done.
       •   Some data will not be backed up. To check which data will be backed up, on the
           Settings screen, tap Accounts and backup and tap Back up data under Samsung
           Cloud.
       •   To check the backup data for other devices in your Samsung Cloud, on the
           Settings screen, tap Accounts and backup → Restore data, and then select a
           device you want.

Restoring data
You can restore your backup data from Samsung Cloud to your device.
1 On the Settings screen, tap Accounts and backup.
2 Tap Restore data and select a device you want.
3 Tick items you want to restore and tap Restore.




                                            156
Settings



Google
Configure settings for some features provided by Google.
On the Settings screen, tap Google.



Advanced features
Options
Turn on advanced features and change the settings that control them.
On the Settings screen, tap Advanced features.
 •   Labs: Use new features of the device.
 •   S Pen: Change the settings for using the S Pen. Refer to S Pen (Galaxy S23 Ultra) for
     more information.
 •   Side key: Select an app or feature to launch using the Side key. Refer to Setting the
     Side key for more information.
 •   Motions and gestures: Turn on the motion feature and configure settings. Refer to
     Motions and gestures for more information.
 •   One-handed mode: Turn on one-handed operation mode for your convenience when
     using the device with one hand.
 •   Smart suggestions: Set the device to analyse key information in the selected text or
     received message, such as events and addresses, and suggest that they be added as
     events to the calendar or to use related apps. You can also get suggestions for useful
     actions or text to enter based on your app usage history.
           Collected information is stored and used only in this device to protect your
           personal information.
 •   Screenshots and screen recorder: Change the settings for screenshots and screen
     recorder.
 •   Show contacts when sharing content: Set the device to display the people you
     contacted on the sharing options panel so that you can share content directly.




                                             157
Settings


 •   Video call effects: Set to use the feature that changes the background or block
     background noise during video calls. Refer to Video call effects for more information.
          • This feature is only available in some apps.

           •   Some features may not be available depending on the model.
 •   Game Launcher: Turn on the Game Launcher. Refer to Game Launcher for more
     information.
 •   Video brightness: Enhance the image quality of your videos to enjoy brighter and
     more vivid colours.
           This feature may not be available in some apps.
 •   Dual Messenger: Install the second app and use two separate accounts for the same
     messenger app. Refer to Dual Messenger for more information.
      Some features may not be available depending on the carrier or model.


Motions and gestures
Turn on the motion feature and configure settings.
On the Settings screen, tap Advanced features → Motions and gestures.
 •   Lift to wake: Set the device to turn on the screen when you pick it up.
 •   Double tap to turn on screen: Set the device to turn on the screen by double tapping
     anywhere on the screen while the screen is turned off.
 •   Double tap to turn off screen: Set the device to turn off the screen by double
     tapping an empty area on the Home screen or the locked screen.
 •   Keep screen on while viewing: Set the device to prevent the display from turning off
     while you are looking at it.
 •   Alert when phone picked up: Set the device to alert you if you have missed calls or
     new messages when you pick up the device.
           This feature may not work if the screen is turned on or the device is not on a
           flat surface.




                                            158
Settings


 •   Mute with gestures: Set the device to mute certain sounds by using motions or
     gestures.
 •   Palm swipe to capture: Set the device to capture a screenshot when you swipe
     your hand to the left or right across the screen. You can check the captured images
     in Gallery. It is not possible to capture a screenshot while using some apps and
     features.
       Excessive shaking or an impact to the device may cause an unintended input for
       some features using sensors.


Video call effects
You can use features that change the background or block background noise during
video calls.
On the Settings screen, tap Advanced features → Video call effects and tap the switch
to turn it on. The  icon will be added on the video calling app’s screen.

Using video call effects
On the video calling app’s screen, tap    .
 •   Reset all: Reset the settings.
 •   Background: Change or blur the background during video calls.
 •   Face: Apply beauty effects to the face.
 •   Colour tone: Adjust the screen’s colour tone and brightness.
 •   Auto framing: Turn the auto framing feature on or off. When you turn on this feature,
     the device changes the shooting angle and zoom automatically by recognising and
     tracking people during video calls.
 •   Mic mode: Block background noise to make the sound clearer.
     ‒ Standard: Remove noise so that it sounds like a normal voice call.
     ‒ Voice focus: Focus on the sound coming from the direction of the front camera.
     ‒ All sound: Transmit all the sounds around you, such as the sound of music.
 •     : Select or add background colours or images to use during video calls.
      • Some features may not be available depending on the model.

      •   Some features are available only when using the front camera.




                                               159
Settings


Dual Messenger
Install the second app and use two separate accounts for the same messenger app.
1 On the Settings screen, tap Advanced features → Dual Messenger.
  Supported apps will appear.
2 Tap the switch of an app to install the second app.
  The second app will be installed. The second app’s icon will be displayed with   .


                                                                Second app



     •   The Dual Messenger feature may not be available depending on the app.
     •   Some features of the app may be limited for the second app.

Uninstalling a second app
1 On the Settings screen, tap Advanced features → Dual Messenger.
2 Tap the switch of the app you want to uninstall and tap Uninstall.
  All data related to the second app will be deleted.
     If you uninstall the first app, the second app will also be deleted.




                                            160
Settings



Digital Wellbeing and parental controls
Check the history of your device usage and use features to prevent your device from
interfering with your life. You can also set up parental controls for your children and
manage their digital use.
On the Settings screen, tap Digital Wellbeing and parental controls.
 •   Screen time goal: Set goals for how much you use your device a day.
 •   App timers: Limit the daily usage time for each app by setting a timer. When you
     reach the limit, the app will be turned off and you cannot use it.
 •   Driving monitor: Turn on the driving monitor to monitor the amount of the time you
     use your device while driving.
 •   Volume monitor: Turn on the volume monitor to protect your hearing.
 •   Parental controls: Manage your children’s digital use.



Battery and device care
Introduction
The device care feature provides an overview of the status of your device’s battery,
storage, memory, and system security. You can also optimise the device.


Optimising your device
On the Settings screen, tap Battery and device care → Optimise now.
The quick optimisation feature improves device performance through the following
actions.
 •   Closing apps running in the background.
 •   Managing abnormal battery usage.
 •   Scanning for crashed apps and malware.




                                            161
Settings


Battery
Check the remaining battery power and time to use the device. For devices with low
battery levels, conserve battery power by turning on power saving features.
On the Settings screen, tap Battery and device care → Battery.
 •   Power saving: Turn on power saving mode to extend the battery’s usage time.
 •   Background usage limits: Limit battery usage for apps that you do not use often.
 •   Wireless power sharing: Charge another device with your phone’s battery. Refer to
     Wireless power sharing for more information.
 •   More battery settings: Configure advanced settings for the battery.
      • The usage time left shows the time remaining before the battery power runs

        out. Usage time left may vary depending on your device settings and operating
        conditions.
      •   You might not receive notifications from some apps that use power saving
          mode.


Storage
Check the status of the used and available storage.
On the Settings screen, tap Battery and device care → Storage. To delete files or
uninstall apps that you do not use anymore, select a category. Then, touch and hold, or
select, an item and tap Delete or Uninstall.
      •   The actual available capacity of the internal storage is less than the specified
          capacity because the operating system and default apps occupy part of the
          storage. The available capacity may change when you update the device.
      •   You can check the available capacity of the internal storage in the Specification
          section for your device on the Samsung website.


Memory
On the Settings screen, tap Battery and device care → Memory.
To speed up your device by stopping apps running in the background, tick apps from the
apps list, and tap Clean now.




                                              162
Settings


Device protection
Check the device’s security status. This feature scans your device for malware.
On the Settings screen, tap Battery and device care → Device protection → Scan phone.


Auto optimisation
You can set the device to perform auto optimisation when your device is not in use.
On the Settings screen, tap Battery and device care → Auto optimisation and tap the
Restart when needed switch to turn it on.


Software update
Update your device’s software through the firmware over-the-air (FOTA) service. You can
also schedule software updates.
On the Settings screen, tap Battery and device care → Software update.


Diagnostics
Test your device using Samsung Members.
On the Settings screen, tap Battery and device care → Diagnostics. Select an item to
test or tap Test all to test all items.


Maintenance mode
Turn on maintenance mode to protect your privacy while someone else is using your
device, such as when you send it for repairs.
On the Settings screen, tap Battery and device care → Maintenance mode → Turn on.



Apps
Manage the device’s apps and change their settings. You can check the apps’ usage
information, change their notification or permission settings, or uninstall or disable
unnecessary apps.
On the Settings screen, tap Apps.




                                            163
Settings



General management
Customise your device’s system settings or reset the device.
On the Settings screen, tap General management.
 •   Language: Select device languages. Refer to Adding device languages for more
     information.
 •   App languages: Select the language you want to use for each app.
 •   Text-to-speech output: Change the settings for text-to-speech features used when
     TalkBack is turned on, such as languages, speed, and more.
 •   Voice input: Download language packs to use the voice input feature offline.
 •   Date and time: Access and alter the settings to control how the device displays the
     time and date.
           If the battery remains fully discharged, the time and date is reset.
 •   Samsung Keyboard settings: Change the settings for the Samsung keyboard.
 •   Keyboard list and default: Select a keyboard to use by default and change the
     keyboard settings.
 •   Physical keyboard: Change the settings for an external keyboard.
 •   Mouse and trackpad: Change the settings for an external mouse or trackpad.
 •   Passwords and autofill: Select an autofill service to use.
 •   Reset: Reset your device’s settings or perform a factory data reset.
 •   Customisation Service: Set to get personalised service based on your interests and
     how you use your device.
 •   Contact us: Ask questions or check the frequently asked questions.

Adding device languages
You can add languages to use on your device.
1 On the Settings screen, tap General management → Language → Add language.
     To check out all the languages that can be added, tap → All languages.
2 Select a language to add.




                                             164
Settings


3 To set the selected language as the default language, tap Set as default. To keep the
     current language setting, tap Keep current.
     The selected language will be added to your languages list. If you changed the default
     language, the selected language will be added to the top of the list.

To change the default language from your languages list, select the language you want
and tap Apply. If an app does not support the default language, the next supported
language in the list will be used.



Accessibility
Configure various settings to improve accessibility to the device. Refer to Accessibility
for more information.
On the Settings screen, tap Accessibility.



Software update
Update your device’s software through the firmware over-the-air (FOTA) service. You can
also schedule software updates.
On the Settings screen, tap Software update.
 •    Download and install: Check for and install updates manually.
 •    Auto download over Wi-Fi: Set the device to download updates automatically when
      connected to a Wi-Fi network.
 •    Last update: Check out information about the last software update.
       If emergency software updates are released for your device’s security and to block
       new types of security threats, they will be installed automatically without your
       agreement.

Security updates information
Security updates are provided to strengthen the security of your device and
protect your personal information. For security updates for your model, visit
security.samsungmobile.com.
       The website supports only some languages.




                                             165
Settings



About phone
Access your device’s information.
On the Settings screen, tap About phone.
To change your device’s name, tap Edit.
 •   Status information: Check out various device information, such as the SIM card
     status, Wi-Fi MAC address, and serial number.
 •   Legal information: Access legal information related to the device, such as safety
     information and the open source licence.
 •   Software information: Access the device’s software information, such as its
     operating system version and firmware version.
 •   Battery information: Check out the device’s battery status and information.




                                           166
Usage notices
Precautions for using the device
Please read this manual when using the device to ensure safe and proper use.
 •   Descriptions are based on the device’s default settings.
 •   Some content may differ from your device depending on the region, service provider,
     model specifications, or device’s software.
 •   The device may require a connection to a Wi-Fi or mobile network when using some
     apps or features.
 •   Content (high quality content) that requires high CPU and memory usage will affect
     the overall performance of the device. Apps related to the content may not work
     properly depending on the device’s specifications and the environment that it is
     used in.
 •   Samsung is not liable for performance issues caused by apps supplied by providers
     other than Samsung.
 •   Samsung is not liable for performance issues or incompatibilities caused by edited
     registry settings or modified operating system software. Attempting to customise
     the operating system may cause the device or apps to work improperly.
 •   Software, sound sources, wallpapers, images, and other media provided with
     this device are licensed for limited use. Extracting and using these materials for
     commercial or other purposes is an infringement of copyright laws. Users are
     entirely responsible for illegal use of media.
 •   You may incur additional charges for data services, such as messaging, uploading
     and downloading, auto-syncing, or using location services depending on your data
     plan. For large data transfers, it is recommended to use the Wi-Fi feature.
 •   Default apps that come with the device are subject to updates and may no longer be
     supported without prior notice.
 •   Modifying the device’s operating system or installing software from unofficial
     sources may result in device malfunctions and data damage or loss. These actions
     are violations of your Samsung licence agreement and will void your warranty.




                                            167
Usage notices


 •   You can see the touch screen clearly even in strong outdoor sunlight by
     automatically adjusting the contrast range based on the surrounding environment.
     Because of the nature of the product, displaying fixed graphics for extended periods
     may result in afterimages (screen burn-in) or ghosting.
     ‒ It is recommended not to use fixed graphics on part or all of the touch screen for
       extended periods and turn off the touch screen when not using the device.
     ‒ You can set the touch screen to turn off automatically when you are not using it.
       Open Settings, tap Display → Screen timeout, and then select the length of time
       you want the device to wait before turning off the touch screen.
     ‒ To set the touch screen to automatically adjust its brightness based on the
       surrounding environment, open Settings, tap Display, and then tap the Adaptive
       brightness switch to turn it on.
 •   Depending on the region or model, some devices are required to receive approval
     from the Federal Communications Commission (FCC).
     If your device is approved by the FCC, you can check out the FCC ID of the device. To
     access the FCC ID, open Settings and tap About phone → Status information. If your
     device does not have an FCC ID, it means that the device has not been authorised for
     sale in the U.S. or its territories and may only be brought to the U.S. for the owner’s
     personal use.
 •   The use of ultra-wideband (UWB) transmitters is prohibited when aboard an
     aeroplane or ship. When you turn on flight mode, the UWB feature will be turned off.
     (Galaxy S23 Ultra, Galaxy S23+)
 •   The use of ultra-wideband (UWB) transmitters is prohibited when turned on within a
     nominated distance of a specified Australian radio astronomy site. (Check the Radio
     communications Class Licence 2015 published by the Australian Communications
     and Media Authority for further details). (Galaxy S23 Ultra, Galaxy S23+)
 •   Depending on the region, you can check out the regulatory information on the
     device. To access the information, open Settings and tap About phone → Regulatory
     information.
 •   The bandwidths supported by the device may vary depending on the region or
     carrier.
 •   5G network availability may vary depending on the country, network provider, and
     user environment.




                                            168
Usage notices


 •   Your device contains magnets. Keep it away from credit cards, implanted medical
     devices, and other devices that may be affected by magnets. In the case of medical
     devices, keep your device more than 15 cm apart. Stop using your device if you
     suspect any interference with your medical device and consult your physician or your
     medical device manufacturer.

Instructional icons
      Warning: situations that could cause injury to yourself or others

      Caution: situations that could cause damage to your device or other equipment

      Notice: notes, usage tips, or additional information




                                            169
Usage notices



Notes on package contents and accessories
Refer to the quick start guide for package contents.
 •   The items supplied with the device and any available accessories may vary
     depending on the region or carrier.
 •   The supplied items are designed only for this device and may not be compatible with
     other devices.
 •   Appearances and specifications are subject to change without prior notice.
 •   You can purchase additional accessories from your local Samsung retailer. Make sure
     they are compatible with the device before purchase.
 •   Use only Samsung-approved accessories. Using unapproved accessories may cause
     the performance problems and malfunctions that are not covered by the warranty.
 •   Availability of all accessories is subject to change depending entirely on
     manufacturing companies. For more information about available accessories, refer
     to the Samsung website.
 •   Headphones (USB Type-C) that support digital output can be used with the device.
     However, the device may not be compatible with headphones that use a different
     audio output method or were made by a different manufacturer.
 •   The included USB cable supports up to 3A charging. Charger not included. For
     optimal charging performance, use an official Samsung 45W charger and a
     compatible USB cable, which are sold separately. (Galaxy S23 Ultra, Galaxy S23+)
 •   The included USB cable supports up to 3A charging. Charger not included.
     (Galaxy S23)




                                           170
Usage notices



Maintaining water and dust resistance
Your device is water- and dust-resistant and meets the following international
standards.
 •   IP68 water resistance rating certification: According to the requirements of the
     IEC 60529 standard, it was tested in 1.5 m fresh water for 30 minutes without
     moving.
You must follow the guidelines to maintain the water- and dust-resistance of your
device.
 •   Do not expose the device to swimming pool water or sea water.
 •   If the device is exposed to unclean water or other liquids, such as soapy water, oil,
     perfume, sunscreen, hand cleaner, chemical products such as cosmetics, or liquids
     that include the alcohol, clean the device with fresh water that does not flow, wipe
     it with a soft and clean cloth, and then dry it thoroughly before use to maintain the
     water resistance.
 •   Do not expose the device to water moving with force. A sudden rise in the water
     pressure may exceed the guaranteed level of water resistance.
 •   In places, such as a sauna or steam room, the water-resistant performance may be
     damaged because of sudden changes in the temperature.
 •   If the device is subjected to an external shock or is damaged, its water resistance
     may decrease.
If the device is exposed to water or pollutants, follow the guidelines:
 •   Wipe the device with a soft and clean cloth, and then dry it thoroughly.
 •   If the microphone or speaker is not completely dry, it may result in the sound not
     being clear during a call.
 •   The touch screen and other features may not work properly if the device is used in
     water.
 •   Do not connect the charger or any accessories until the device is completely dry.
     The device can be damaged if an accessory or charger is connected when the
     multipurpose jack is not yet dry.
The water and dust resistance of your Samsung Galaxy device is not permanent and may
diminish over time because of normal wear and tear.




                                             171
Usage notices



Device overheating situations and solutions
When the device heats up while charging the battery
While charging, the device and the charger may become hot. During wireless charging
or fast charging, the device may feel hotter to the touch. This does not affect the device’s
lifespan or performance and is in the device’s normal range of operation. If the battery
becomes too hot, the charging speed may decrease or the charger may stop charging.


     Do the following when the device heats up:
     •    Disconnect the charger from the device and close any running apps. Wait for the
          device to cool down and then begin charging the device again.
     •    If the lower part of the device overheats, it could be because the connected
          USB cable is damaged. Replace the damaged USB cable with a new
          Samsung-approved one.
     •    When using a wireless charger, do not place foreign materials, such as metal
          objects, magnets, and magnetic stripe cards, between the device and the
          wireless charger.

          The wireless charging or fast charging feature is only available on supported
          models.


When the device heats up during use
When you use features or apps that require more power or use them for extended
periods, your device may temporarily heat up because of increased battery consumption.
Close any running apps and do not use the device for a while.
Refer to the following examples of situations in which the device may overheat.
 •       During the initial setup after purchase or when restoring data
 •       When downloading large files




                                                172
Usage notices


 •       When using apps that require more power or using apps for extended periods
         ‒ When playing high-quality games for extended periods
         ‒ When recording videos for extended periods
         ‒ When streaming videos while using the maximum brightness setting
         ‒ When connecting to a TV
 •       While multitasking (or, when running many apps in the background)
         ‒ When using Multi window
         ‒ When updating or installing apps while recording videos
         ‒ When downloading large files during a video call
         ‒ When recording videos while using a navigation app
 •       When using large amount of data for syncing with the cloud, email, or other accounts
 •       When using a navigation app in a car while the device is placed in direct sunlight
 •       When using the mobile hotspot and tethering feature
 •       When using the device in areas with weak signals or no reception
 •       When charging the battery with a damaged USB cable
 •       When the device’s multipurpose jack is damaged or exposed to foreign materials,
         such as liquid, dust, metal powder, and pencil lead
 •       When you are roaming


     Do the following when the device heats up:
     •    Keep the device updated with the latest software.
     •    Conflicts between running apps may cause the device to heat up. Restart the
          device.
     •    Turn off the Wi-Fi, GPS, and Bluetooth features when not using them.
     •    Close apps that increase battery consumption or that run in the background
          when not in use.
     •    Delete unnecessary files or unused apps.
     •    Decrease the screen brightness.
     •    If the device overheats or feels hot for a prolonged period, do not use it for a
          while. If the device continues to overheat, contact a Samsung Service Centre or
          an authorised service centre.




                                                173
Usage notices


Precautions for device overheating
If you begin to feel uncomfortable because of the device overheating, stop using the
device.
When the device heats up, the features and performance may be limited or the device
may turn off to cool down. The feature is only available on supported models.
 •   If the device overheats, the screen brightness, the screen refresh rate, and the
     performance speed will be limited to lower the device’s temperature. Even if the
     battery charging indicator icon appears, charging may be slow. When charging stops
     because of a rise in the device’s temperature, the battery indicator icon will blink.
 •   If the device reaches a certain temperature, a warning message will appear to
     prevent device failure, skin irritation and damage, and battery leakage. Running
     apps will be closed and all calling and other features will be limited, except for
     emergency calls, until the device cools down.
 •   If the second message appears because of a further increase of the device’s
     temperature, the device will turn off. Do not use the device until the device’s
     temperature drops below the specified level. If the second warning message
     appears during an emergency call, the call will not be disconnected by a forced
     termination.


Precautions for operating environment
Your device may heat up because of the environment in the following conditions. Use
caution to avoid shortening the battery’s lifespan, damaging the device, or causing a fire.
 •   Do not store your device in very cold or very hot temperatures.
 •   Do not expose your device to direct sunlight for extended periods.
 •   Do not use or store your device for extended periods in very hot areas, such as inside
     a car in the summertime.
 •   Do not place the device in any areas that may overheat, such as on an electric
     heating mat.
 •   Do not store your device near or in heaters, microwaves, hot cooking equipment, or
     high pressure containers.
 •   Do not use a cable whose covering is peeled off or damaged, and do not use any
     charger or battery that is damaged or malfunctioning.




                                            174
Appendix
Accessibility
About Accessibility
Improve accessibility with features that make the device easier to use for users who have
impaired vision, hearing, and reduced dexterity.
Open Settings and tap Accessibility. To check recommended features and the
accessibility features you are using, tap Recommended for you. To turn off the features
in use, tap Turn off.


TalkBack (Voice feedback)
Turning TalkBack on or off
When you turn on TalkBack, the device will start voice feedback. When you tap the
selected feature once, the device will read the text on the screen aloud. Tapping the
feature twice will turn on the feature.
Open Settings, tap Accessibility → TalkBack, and then tap the switch to turn it on.
To turn off TalkBack, tap the switch and double tap anywhere on the screen.
To check out how to use TalkBack, tap Settings → Tutorial and help.
     Some features are not available while you are using TalkBack.


Controlling the screen with finger gestures
You can use various finger gestures to control the screen while you are using TalkBack.
To check out and customise available finger gestures, open Settings and tap
Accessibility → TalkBack → Settings → Customise gestures.




                                           175
Appendix


Using the reading menu
While you are using TalkBack, swipe to the left or right with three fingers. The reading
menu will appear and the device will read the options aloud. Swipe to the left or right
with three fingers to scroll through the options. When you hear the option you want,
swipe upwards or downwards to use the option or adjust the settings for the option. For
example, when you hear Speech rate, you can adjust the speech rate by swiping upwards
or downwards.

Adding and managing image labels
You can assign labels to images on the screen. The device reads aloud the labels
when the images are selected. Add labels to unlabelled images by swiping upwards or
downwards, then to the right. Then, tap Add label when the TalkBack menus appear.
To manage the labels, open Settings and tap Accessibility → TalkBack → Settings →
Advanced settings → Custom labels.

Configuring settings for TalkBack
Configure settings for TalkBack for your convenience.
Open Settings and tap Accessibility → TalkBack → Settings.
 •   New features in TalkBack: Check for key updates and changes to TalkBack.
 •   Text-to-speech settings: Change the settings for text-to-speech features used when
     TalkBack is turned on, such as languages, speed, and more.
 •   Verbosity: Customise the detailed settings for voice feedback.
 •   Sound and vibration: Change sound and vibration settings for TalkBack.
 •   Customise focus indicator: Set the device to thicken the border of the focus indicator
     that appears when you tap items. You can also change the colour of the indicator.
 •   Customise gestures: Check out various finger gestures to control the screen while
     you are using TalkBack and customise the settings for gestures.
 •   Customise menus: Select which TalkBack menus and reading menus to use.
 •   Braille keyboard: Enter letters on the screen using a 6-dot braille keyboard.
 •   Braille display: Connect a braille keyboard and change the settings.




                                            176
Appendix


 •   Tutorial and help: Learn how to use TalkBack.
 •   Advanced settings: Configure advanced settings for TalkBack.
 •   Open TalkBack in the Galaxy Store: Open TalkBack from the Galaxy Store and check
     for updates.

Entering text using the keyboard
To display the keyboard, tap the text input field and double tap anywhere on the screen.
When you touch the keyboard with your finger, the device reads aloud the character keys
under your finger. When you hear the character you want, release your finger from the
screen to select it. The character is entered and the device reads the text aloud.

Entering additional characters
Touch and hold a key on the keyboard to enter additional characters available for the
key. A pop-up window appears above the key showing available characters. To select a
character, drag your finger on the pop-up window until you hear the character you want,
and release it.


Spoken assistance
Speak keyboard input aloud
Set the device to read aloud what you enter on the keyboard.
Open Settings, tap Accessibility → Spoken assistance → Speak keyboard input aloud,
tap the switch to turn it on, and then select an option.

Using audio description
Set the device to play the audio description when playing a video that provides audio
descriptions.
Open Settings, tap Accessibility → Spoken assistance, and then tap the Audio
description switch to turn it on.




                                           177
Appendix


Bixby Vision for accessibility
When you turn on the Bixby Vision accessibility features, you can use additional Bixby
Vision features.
1 Open Settings, tap Accessibility → Spoken assistance → Bixby Vision for
   accessibility, and then tap the switch to turn it on.
2 Tap Open Bixby Vision.
3 Select a feature you want to use.
   •   Scene describer: Analyse the scene you captured and describe it by voice.
   •   Object identifier: Recognise objects and describe them by voice.
   •   Text reader: Recognise text and read them aloud.
   •   Colour detector: Detect the colour of the object and say it aloud.
       Some features may not be available depending on the carrier or model.


Adding voice recordings to voice labels
You can use voice labels to distinguish objects of similar shape by attaching labels to
them. You can record and assign a voice recording to an NFC-enabled voice label. The
voice recording is played back when you place your device near the label.
       Turn on the NFC feature before using this feature.

1 Open Settings and tap Accessibility → Spoken assistance → Voice Label.
   The voice recorder will open.
2 Tap to start recording. Speak into the microphone.
3 When you are finished recording, tap Done to stop.
4 Hold the back of your device over the voice label.
   The information in the voice recording will be written to the voice label.




                                            178
Appendix


Visibility enhancements
Display mode
Change the display mode.
Open Settings, tap Accessibility → Visibility enhancements, and then select a mode you
want under Display mode.

Using the high contrast theme
Apply a clear theme that displays light-coloured content on a dark background.
Open Settings, tap Accessibility → Visibility enhancements → High contrast theme,
and then select a theme you want.

Using the high contrast font
Adjust the colour and outline of fonts to increase the contrast between the text and the
background.
Open Settings, tap Accessibility → Visibility enhancements, and then tap the High
contrast fonts switch to turn it on.

Using the high contrast keyboard
Change the colours of the Samsung keyboard to increase the contrast between the text
and the background.
Open Settings, tap Accessibility → Visibility enhancements, and then tap the High
contrast keyboard switch to turn it on.

Displaying button shapes
Display button shapes with frames to make them stand out.
Open Settings, tap Accessibility → Visibility enhancements, and then tap the Highlight
buttons switch to turn it on.

Reversing the display colours
Improve screen visibility to help users recognise text on the screen.
Open Settings, tap Accessibility → Visibility enhancements, and then tap the Colour
inversion switch to turn it on.




                                           179
Appendix


Colour correction
Adjust how colours are displayed on the screen if you have difficulty in distinguishing
colours. The device changes the colours into more recognisable colours.
Open Settings, tap Accessibility → Visibility enhancements → Colour correction, and
then tap the switch to turn it on. Select an option.

Colour filter
Adjust the screen colours if you have difficulty in reading the text.
Open Settings, tap Accessibility → Visibility enhancements → Colour filter, and then
tap the switch to turn it on. Select a colour you want.
To adjust the transparency level, drag the adjustment bar under Opacity.

Reducing screen motion effects
Reduce animation effects if you are sensitive to animations or screen movement.
Open Settings, tap Accessibility → Visibility enhancements, and then tap the Remove
animations switch to turn it on.

Reducing transparency and blur effects
Reduce the transparency and blur effects to make the content on the screen more
visible.
Open Settings, tap Accessibility → Visibility enhancements, and then tap the Reduce
transparency and blur switch to turn it on.

Dimming the screen
Dim the screen below the minimum brightness setting for a more comfortable viewing
experience.
Open Settings, tap Accessibility → Visibility enhancements, and then tap the Extra dim
switch to turn it on.




                                            180
Appendix


Magnifying the screen
Magnify the screen and zoom in on a specific area.
Open Settings, tap Accessibility → Visibility enhancements → Magnification →
Magnification shortcut, and then tap the switch to turn it on. Then tick the actions to
use to start using this feature directly.
 •   Tap Accessibility button: Zoom in by tapping    on the navigation bar.
 •   Press and hold Volume up and down keys for 3 seconds: Zoom in by pressing and
     holding the Volume Up key and the Volume Down key simultaneously for 3 seconds.
 •   Press Side and Volume up keys: Zoom in by pressing the Side key and the Volume Up
     key simultaneously.
 •   Triple-tap screen: Zoom in by tapping the screen three times.
You can magnify wherever you want on the screen using the magnifier window. To move
the magnifier, drag the edge of the magnifier frame.
To explore the screen, drag two fingers across the magnified screen.
To adjust zoom ratio, pinch two fingers on the magnified screen or spread them apart.
      •   When you magnify the entire screen, the keyboards and navigation bar on the
          screen cannot be magnified.
      •   When this feature is turned on, the performance of some apps may be affected.

Using the magnifier
Use the camera as a magnifying glass to magnify objects.
Open Settings, tap Accessibility → Visibility enhancements → Magnifier → Magnifier
shortcut, and then tap the switch to turn it on. Then tick the actions to use to start
using this feature directly. When you perform the action, the camera will work like a
magnifying glass.

Changing the size and colour of the pointer
Enlarge the pointer when using an external mouse or touchpad. You can also change the
colour of the pointer.
Open Settings, tap Accessibility → Visibility enhancements → Pointer size and colour.




                                           181
Appendix


Changing font
Change the font size and style.
Open Settings and tap Accessibility → Visibility enhancements → Font size and style.

Changing screen zoom
Make the items on the screen larger or smaller.
Open Settings and tap Accessibility → Visibility enhancements → Screen zoom.


Hearing enhancements
Live Transcribe
Set the device to capture speech using the device’s microphone and convert it to
on-screen text.
Open Settings, tap Accessibility → Hearing enhancements → Live Transcribe → Live
Transcribe shortcut, and then tap the switch to turn it on. Tick the actions to use to start
using this feature directly. Then, perform the action to transcribe speech.

Live Caption
Set the device to detect speech and automatically generate captions when you play
media content, such as videos or podcasts.
Open Settings, tap Accessibility → Hearing enhancements → Live Caption, and then
tap the Use Live Caption switch to turn it on.

Caption settings
Open Settings, tap Accessibility → Hearing enhancements → Caption preference, and
then tap the Show captions switch to turn it on.
Select an option for configuring the caption settings.




                                            182
Appendix


Sound notifications
Set the device to detect sounds, such as the beeping of smoke detectors or crying
babies. The device will vibrate when it detects sound and the alert will be saved as a log.
     While this feature is turned on, the voice recognition will not operate.

1 Open Settings and tap Accessibility → Hearing enhancements → Sound
   notifications → Open Sound notifications.
2 Follow the on-screen instructions to turn on the sound notification feature.
   When sound is detected, the log will be displayed on the timeline. To check the log,
   tap .
3 If you want to turn off this feature, tap    and tap the Use Sound Notifications switch
   to turn it off.

Hearing aid support
Set the device to enhance the sound quality to work better with hearing aids.
Open Settings, tap Accessibility → Hearing enhancements → Hearing aid support, and
then tap the Hearing aid compatibility switch to turn it on.

Amplify ambient sound
Set the device to amplify the sound around you to help you hear better when using
headphones.
1 Open Settings, tap Accessibility → Hearing enhancements → Amplify ambient
   sound, and then tap the Amplify ambient sound shortcut switch to turn it on.
2 Tick the actions to use to start using this feature directly.
3 Connect headphones to the device and wear them.
4 Perform the action.




                                              183
Appendix


Adapt sound
Optimise the sound setting to find the best sound quality and use it for calls or media
playback.
Open Settings, tap Accessibility → Hearing enhancements → Adapt sound, and then
optimise the sound setting.

Turning off all sounds
Set the device to mute all device sounds, such as media sounds, and the caller’s voice
during a call.
Open Settings, tap Accessibility → Hearing enhancements, and then tap the Mute all
sounds switch to turn it on.

Mono audio
Mono output combines stereo sound into one signal that is played through all
headphone speakers. Use this if you have a hearing impairment or if a single earbud is
more convenient.
Open Settings, tap Accessibility → Hearing enhancements, and then tap the Mono
audio switch to turn it on.

Adjusting the sound balance
Set the device to adjust the sound balance.
1 Open Settings and tap Accessibility → Hearing enhancements.
2 Drag the adjustment bar under Left/right sound balance to the left or right and
   adjust the sound balance.




                                           184
Appendix


Interaction and dexterity
Universal switch
You can control the touch screen by connecting an external switch or by using head
movements and face gestures.
1 Open Settings and tap Accessibility → Interaction and dexterity → Universal switch.
2 Read the on-screen instructions and tap Done.
3 Tap the switch to turn it on.
4 If the universal switches are not registered on the device, tap Add switch and set
   switches to control the device.
     To turn on the universal switch feature, at least one switch must be registered on
     the device.

To set switches to control the device, tap the switch under Switches.
To turn off this feature, press the Side key and the Volume Up key simultaneously.

Assistant menu

Displaying the assistive shortcut icon
Set the device to display the assistive shortcut icon for accessing apps, features, and
settings. You can control the device by tapping the assistive menus in the icon.
1 Open Settings and tap Accessibility → Interaction and dexterity → Assistant menu.
2 Tap the switch to turn it on.
   The assistive shortcut icon appears at the bottom right of the screen.
   To adjust the assistant shortcut icon’s transparency level, drag the adjustment bar
   under Transparency.




                                            185
Appendix


Accessing assistive menus
The assistive shortcut icon appears as a floating icon for access to the assistive menus
from any screen.
When you tap the assistive shortcut icon, the icon expands slightly and the assistive
menus appear on the icon. Tap the left or right arrow, or swipe to the left or right, to
select other menus.

Using enhanced assistive menus
Set the device to display enhanced assistive menus for selected apps.
Open Settings, tap Accessibility → Interaction and dexterity → Assistant menu →
Select apps to show contextual menus with, and then tap the switches next to the apps
you want to turn on.

Voice Access
Use this feature to control your device by voice.
Open Settings, tap Accessibility → Interaction and dexterity → Voice Access, and then
tap the switch to turn it on.

Answering or ending calls
Change the method for answering or ending calls.
Open Settings, tap Accessibility → Interaction and dexterity → Answering and ending
calls, and then tap the switch of the method you want.




                                            186
Appendix


Interaction control
Turn on the interaction control mode to restrict the device’s reaction to inputs while
using apps.
1 Open Settings and tap Accessibility → Interaction and dexterity → Interaction
    control.
2   Tap the Interaction control shortcut switch to turn it on.
3   Press the Side key and the Volume Up key simultaneously while using an app.
4   Adjust the size of the frame or draw a line around an area that you want to restrict.
5   Tap Done.
    The device displays the restricted area. The restricted area will not react when you
    touch it and the device’s keys will be blocked. However, you can unblock functions for
    the Side key, Volume key, and keyboard in interaction control mode.

To turn off the interaction control mode, press the Side key and the Volume Up key
simultaneously.
To set the device to lock the screen after turning off the interaction control mode, open
Settings, tap Accessibility → Interaction and dexterity → Interaction control, and then
tap the Lock screen when deactivated switch to turn it on.

Touch and hold delay
Set the recognition time for touching and holding the screen.
Open Settings, tap Accessibility → Interaction and dexterity → Touch and hold delay,
and then select an option.

Tap duration
Set the duration you must touch the screen for the device to recognise it as a tap.
Open Settings, tap Accessibility → Interaction and dexterity → Tap duration, tap the
switch to turn it on, and then set the time.

Ignore repeated touches
Set the device to recognise only the first tap within a set time when you tap the screen
repeatedly.
Open Settings, tap Accessibility → Interaction and dexterity → Ignore repeated
touches, tap the switch to turn it on, and then set the time.



                                            187
Appendix


Auto action after pointer stops
Set the device to select an item automatically when you place the mouse pointer over
the item. You can also assign actions to use when you move the pointer to a corner of the
screen.
Open Settings, tap Accessibility → Interaction and dexterity → Auto action after
pointer stops, and then tap the Auto click switch to turn it on. To assign corner actions,
select an option under Corner actions and select an action.

Sticky keys
Set an external keyboard’s modifier key, such as the Shift, Ctrl, or Alt keys, to stay
pressed. This helps you use keyboard shortcuts without pressing two keys at the same
time.
Open Settings, tap Accessibility → Interaction and dexterity, and then tap the Sticky
keys switch to turn it on.

Slow keys
Set the recognition time for pressing a key on the external keyboard.
Open Settings, tap Accessibility → Interaction and dexterity → Slow keys, tap the
switch to turn it on, and then set the time.

Bounce keys
Set the device to recognise only the first time you press a key within a set time when you
press the same key repeatedly.
Open Settings, tap Accessibility → Interaction and dexterity → Bounce keys, tap the
switch to turn it on, and then set the time.




                                            188
Appendix


Advanced settings
Launching accessibility features directly
Set to open the accessibility features directly.
Open Settings and tap Accessibility → Advanced settings. Tap Accessibility button →
Select actions, or select Side and Volume up keys or Volume up and down keys, and
then tick the accessibility features you want to use.

Setting light notification
Set the device to blink the flash or the screen when an alarm sounds or when you have
notifications, such as incoming calls or new messages.
Open Settings, tap Accessibility → Advanced settings → Flash notification, and then
tap the switches next to the options you want to turn on.

Time to take action
Set the amount of time to display pop-up windows that ask you to take action, such as
notifications or volume controller.
Open Settings, tap Accessibility → Advanced settings → Time to take action, and then
select an option.


Installed apps
Check out the accessibility services installed on the device.
Open Settings and tap Accessibility → Installed apps.




                                            189
Appendix



Troubleshooting
Before contacting a Samsung Service Centre or an authorised service centre, please
attempt the following solutions. Some situations may not apply to your device.
You can also use Samsung Members to solve any problems you might encounter while
using your device.


When you turn on your device or while you are using the device, it
prompts you to enter one of the following codes:
 •   Password: When the device lock feature is turned on, you must enter the password
     you set for the device.
 •   PIN: When using the device for the first time or when the PIN requirement is turned
     on, you must enter the PIN supplied with the SIM or USIM card. You can turn off this
     feature by using the Lock SIM card menu.
 •   PUK: Your SIM or USIM card is blocked, usually as a result of entering your PIN
     incorrectly several times. You must enter the PUK supplied by your carrier.
 •   PIN2: When you access a menu requiring the PIN2, you must enter the PIN2 supplied
     with the SIM or USIM card. For more information, contact your carrier.


Your device displays network or service error messages
 •   When you are in areas with weak signals or poor reception, you may lose reception.
     Move to another area and try again. While moving, error messages may appear
     repeatedly.
 •   You cannot access some options without a subscription. For more information,
     contact your carrier.


Your device does not turn on
When the battery is completely discharged, your device will not turn on. Fully charge the
battery before turning on the device.




                                            190
Appendix


The touch screen responds slowly or improperly
 •   If you attach a screen protector or optional accessories to the touch screen, the
     touch screen may not function properly.
 •   If you are wearing gloves, if your hands are not clean while touching the touch
     screen, or if you tap the screen with sharp objects or your fingertips, the touch screen
     may malfunction.
 •   The touch screen may malfunction in humid conditions or when exposed to water.
 •   Restart your device to clear any temporary software problems.
 •   Ensure that your device software is updated to the latest version.
 •   If the touch screen is scratched or damaged, visit a Samsung Service Centre or an
     authorised service centre.


Your device freezes or encounters a fatal problem
Try the following solutions. If the problem is still not resolved, contact a Samsung
Service Centre or an authorised service centre.

Restarting the device
If your device freezes or hangs, you may need to close apps or turn off the device and
turn it on again.

Forcing restart
If your device is frozen and unresponsive, press and hold the Side key and the Volume
Down key simultaneously for more than 7 seconds to restart it.

Resetting the device
If these methods do not solve your problem, perform a factory data reset.
Open Settings and tap General management → Reset → Factory data reset → Reset →
Delete all. Before performing the factory data reset, remember to make backup copies
of all important data stored in the device.




                                             191
Appendix


Calls are not connected
 •   Ensure that you have accessed the right cellular network.
 •   Ensure that you have not set call barring for the phone number you are dialling.
 •   Ensure that you have not set call barring for the incoming phone number.


Others cannot hear you speaking on a call
 •   Ensure that you are not covering the built-in microphone.
 •   Ensure that the microphone is close to your mouth.
 •   If you are using headphones, ensure that they are properly connected.


Sound echoes during a call
Adjust the volume by pressing the Volume key or move to another area.


A cellular network or the internet is often disconnected or audio
quality is poor
 •   Ensure that you are not blocking the device’s internal antenna.
 •   When you are in areas with weak signals or poor reception, you may lose reception.
     You may have connectivity problems because of issues with the carrier’s base
     station. Move to another area and try again.
 •   When using the device while moving, wireless network services may be disabled
     because of issues with the carrier’s network.


The battery does not charge properly (For Samsung-approved
chargers)
 •   Ensure that the charger is connected properly.
 •   Visit a Samsung Service Centre or an authorised service centre and have the battery
     replaced.




                                           192
Appendix


The battery depletes faster than when first purchased
 •   When you expose the device or the battery to very cold or very hot temperatures, the
     useful charge may be reduced.
 •   Battery consumption will increase when you use certain features or apps, such as
     GPS, games, or the internet.
 •   The battery is consumable and the useful charge will get shorter over time.


Error messages appear when opening the camera
Your device must have sufficient available storage and battery power to operate the
camera app. If you receive error messages when opening the camera, try the following:
 •   Charge the battery.
 •   Free some storage by transferring files to a computer or deleting files from your
     device.
 •   Restart the device. If you are still having trouble with the camera app after trying
     these tips, contact a Samsung Service Centre or an authorised service centre.


Picture quality is poorer than the preview
 •   The quality of your pictures may vary, depending on the surroundings and the
     photography techniques you use.
 •   If you take pictures in dark areas, at night, or indoors, image noise may occur or
     images may be out of focus.


Error messages appear when opening multimedia files
If you receive error messages or multimedia files do not play when you open them on
your device, try the following:
 •   Free some storage by transferring files to a computer or deleting files from your
     device.
 •   Ensure that the music file is not Digital Rights Management (DRM)-protected. If the
     file is DRM-protected, ensure that you have the appropriate licence or key to play the
     file.
 •   Ensure that the file formats are supported by the device. If a file format is not
     supported, such as DivX or AC3, install an app that supports it. To check the file
     formats that your device supports, visit the Samsung website.



                                             193
Appendix


 •   Your device supports pictures and videos captured with the device. Pictures and
     videos captured by other devices may not work properly.
 •   Your device supports multimedia files that are authorised by your carrier or providers
     of additional services. Some content circulated on the internet, such as ringtones,
     videos, or wallpapers, may not work properly.


Bluetooth is not working well
If another Bluetooth device is not located or there are connection problems or
performance malfunctions, try the following:
 •   Ensure that the device you wish to connect with is ready to be scanned or connected
     to.
 •   Ensure that your phone and the other Bluetooth device are within the maximum
     Bluetooth range (10 m).
 •   On your phone, open Settings, tap Connections, and then tap the Bluetooth switch
     to turn it on again.
 •   On your phone, open Settings, tap General management → Reset → Reset network
     settings → Reset settings → Reset to reset network settings. You may lose
     registered information when performing the reset.
If these tips do not solve the problem, contact a Samsung Service Centre or an
authorised service centre.


The screen brightness adjustment bar does not appear on the
notification panel
Open the notification panel by dragging the status bar downwards, and then drag the
notification panel downwards. Tap → Quick panel layout → Brightness control →
Show always.


A connection is not established when you connect the device to a
computer
 •   Ensure that the USB cable you are using is compatible with your device.
 •   Ensure that you have the proper driver installed and updated on your computer.




                                            194
Appendix


Your device cannot find your current location
GPS signals may be obstructed in some locations, such as indoors. Set the device to use
Wi-Fi or a mobile network to find your current location in these situations.


Data stored in the device has been lost
Always make backup copies of all important data stored in the device. Otherwise, you
cannot restore data if it is damaged or lost. Samsung is not responsible for the loss of
data stored in the device.


A small gap appears around the outside of the device case
 •   This gap is a necessary manufacturing feature and some minor rocking or vibration
     of parts may occur.
 •   Over time, friction between parts may cause this gap to expand slightly.


There is not enough space in the device’s storage
Delete unnecessary data, such as cache, using the device care feature or manually delete
unused apps or files to free up storage space.


The Home button does not appear
The navigation bar containing the Home button may disappear while using certain apps
or features. To access the navigation bar, drag upwards from the bottom of the screen.



Removing the battery
 •   To remove the battery, contact an authorised service centre. To obtain battery
     removal instructions, please visit www.samsung.com/global/ecodesign_energy.
 •   For your safety, you must not attempt to remove the battery. If the battery is not
     properly removed, it may lead to damage to the battery and device, cause personal
     injury, and result in the device being unsafe.
 •   Samsung does not accept liability for any damage or loss (whether in contract or
     tort, including negligence) which may arise from failure to precisely follow these
     warnings and instructions, other than death or personal injury caused by Samsung’s
     negligence.



                                           195
Copyright
Copyright © 2023 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
This manual is protected under international copyright laws.
No part of this manual may be reproduced, distributed, translated, or transmitted in any
form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording, or
storing in any information storage and retrieval system.


Trademarks
 •   SAMSUNG and the SAMSUNG logo are registered trademarks of Samsung
     Electronics Co., Ltd.
 •   Bluetooth® is a registered trademark of Bluetooth SIG, Inc. worldwide.
 •   Wi-Fi®, Wi-Fi Direct™, Wi-Fi CERTIFIED™, and the Wi-Fi logo are registered
     trademarks of the Wi-Fi Alliance.
 •   Manufactured under license from Dolby Laboratories. Dolby, Dolby Atmos, and the
     double-D symbol are trademarks of Dolby Laboratories.
 •   All other trademarks and copyrights are the property of their respective owners.
